That's the right one I just gave you in the Zoom chat.
Then once you go there, you should be able to access it with this information here.
You also can just go to slido.com and input the information that I just gave in the Zoom
chat.
Okay, I don't want to steal any more time, I'm going to pass it over to my colleague
Rich.
Really excited to have him here giving the workshop.
Thank you, Rich, for all that you do for the open source community, and with that, it's
all yours.
Okay, thanks so much, Phil, and thanks everybody for attending.
I'm going to share my screen right away so I can get right into it.
Great, so the first thing you should see besides my Zoom and my calendar is this web page.
Basically, all the exercises are here on this repo, pointblank-workshop, and the link to
the cloud project is here.
Follow along if you want with the cloud project, it's the same stuff that's in here.
This repo will always exist, the cloud project will always exist, which is great.
So there's a life outside this workshop for these materials.
You can either follow along in the cloud by executing the different parts of the RMDs,
or you can just watch.
It's totally up to you.
There's no exercises.
There's a ton of material, though, so we need to get started.
It's a three-hour workshop.
I made...
I mean, this is the first time it's being delivered, so I'm not sure if it's too much
material or too little material.
I think it may be, hopefully, right in the middle, but we're about to see.
So any feedback after this workshop would be totally appreciated, just concerning the
amount of material.
Okay, so we have a number of modules I'm going to go through, and basically, they are these
RMD files right here.
First, we're going to have an introduction into data validation.
So I'm going to skip right to that RMD, which is right here.
Okay, so we're going to start with data validation, and that's data validation of tables.
The whole package just deals with tables, not lists or vectors.
So the scope is very much like data tables.
So common workflow that we start off with is involving an agent.
So what's an agent?
Well, it's kind of like the main data collection and reporting object.
So you define that, you give it a table, you declare a number of validation steps, and
we do that using validation functions, and we'll learn about how to do that.
And then we interrogate the data.
So that's where, essentially, we are actually applying the rules that we've set here in
the middle part, right here.
So we're going to see whether our validations, you know, what they yield in terms of like
test results.
Okay, so we always start with create agent.
And that's how we define how the data can be reached, give us some basic rules.
We end with interrogate.
So the major construction is right here, you create the agent object, start with this,
a number of validation functions, and then interrogate, we close with that.
And we can use pipes all the way through, which is nice.
So in the actual package, we have a data set called small table.
It's a really, really small table.
I'm going to show that to you right now.
It's essentially this.
So it's great, because as columns of different types, it has some missing values.
It's a great table to experiment with just, you know, when using the functions from the
package.
So we have that, we're going to use that in the next example right here.
So we're going to make an object called agent one, starting off the create agent.
The table argument is the first one, we give it small table.
This is like a little name for report.
So basically, what happens in point black is you get a report in your viewer.
And you can publish this report, and we can just use it as it is, but we can feed it different
little things like the name of the table, like a friendly name, and the label for the
validation.
So this is quite nice to have.
I'm going to run everything in my console.
The reason is, I don't want the report to appear here, I want it to appear in this giant
viewer area.
So I'm just going to mainly copy and paste many times.
So I can just type agent one, print it, and the printing actually happens in the viewer.
So we see right here, we have, well, kind of like a whole lot of nothing.
We have like a title, we have, you know, our label that we put in, it knows what table
we have.
But it says no interrogation performed.
It's because we didn't do that yet.
So at least it gives you something.
So this is like an empty table.
Great.
So...
Can I ask you a quick question?
Yeah, please do.
Did you have a RCU cloud for today?
I had a question about that.
I wasn't sure if...
Yeah.
Yeah, it's right here.
It's this link right here.
It's inside.
Oh, beautiful.
Thank you.
Okay.
Awesome.
I see it.
Okay.
I can actually copy it to...
Unless you get there first, Bill.
Yeah, I got it.
Don't even worry about it.
Okay.
Thank you.
No problem.
Okay.
So validation functions.
That's kind of like, you know, like the main thing, the main event when it comes to validation
in point blank.
So we have a ton of these functions.
A lot of them begin with call, but, you know, they can be given something else.
So how would we read these?
So basically this function says we want column values greater than equal to some value.
And we're focusing on column D. So what it'll do is it'll go in each and every cell within
that column and check that the values are above zero.
This is a different one.
This is call vals and set.
So what it's saying right here is in column F, we expect that values in it are of this
set.
Right?
This predefined set.
There's a bunch of call is functions.
We'll get into this a little bit later, but it's good to explain it right away.
The column type.
So we expect that column E is logical.
Column D is numeric.
D and F are character.
And we have another function here.
It's also a validation function.
Rows distinct.
So we're just checking for duplicate rows.
If there are any duplicate rows, that's going to be a failure.
Not an entire failure, but a failure of test units.
More on that in a sec.
So let's actually run this.
I'm going to run it right here.
And then agent one will go here into the console so we can see it printed in the viewer.
Great.
Okay.
Now we're starting to see things.
More than before.
We have basically a test plan right here.
We have our functions coming in.
We have the columns that we're using.
So it kind of mirrors what we have here on the left we put in.
But we have nothing on the right.
This is all empty.
It's, you know, it's because we didn't actually interrogate the table yet.
You know, we're one step away from that.
So we're building up the plan.
And our next step is just to interrogate.
So it's basically this function, interrogate.
And then great.
It shows you some stuff on the console, which is good.
Kind of like a preview of what's to come.
And then agent one again.
Great.
Now we see things.
We see that we have stuff on the right and we have, you know, all sorts of data here
from the interrogation.
I'm going to get into how to read this table, make it a little bit bigger so you can see
more of it.
Great.
Okay.
So there's quite a few things here.
So I've got it all written down here.
So you have that for reference later, but I'll just go through it pretty quickly.
We have the step.
So essentially this is a step index and we have the function that was used as a basis
for this validation step.
So each row is a validation step.
The columns and the values, this is kind of like a common for most of these functions.
You see rows distinct doesn't have that because it's not so much, it's checking across rows
instead of columns.
But we have essentially this mirrors the arguments you put in.
This right here.
So there's a feature in point blank where you can modify the table in a step.
So let's say you just want to filter it a bit or add a column, a computed column, and
then validate on that.
You can do that.
This just shows that there were no modifications made.
We didn't use that feature.
Eval just means that everything was good in terms of the interrogation, the evaluation
of the table.
Nothing unexpected happened.
Good to see.
You want to know that things worked before you validate things.
So this is very important to have.
Units.
This is a big thing.
Units are these atomic units of tests.
So this one has 13.
That means there's 13 cells checked in total.
13 individual checks within this step passed.
So the fraction of one.
And none failed.
So the fraction is zero.
The only time we have failures, it seems like isn't row distinct because we have duplicate
rows.
So we see that right here.
We have some failures.
What this does also is shows you in this ext.
That means extract.
It gives you a CSV of the failing rows.
So you can just click that, get the CSV file, and then see which rows are duplicates.
This is good for people not using R. If you just want to show somebody this table and
they may be somebody else, they're not using point blank, they can at least find out which
get through a cause of what's causing failures.
So that's pretty much it.
These things right here, WSN, these are different states.
They're indicators.
We haven't said any of these yet.
We will.
But these are thresholds that signify different states.
So this W is warn.
This is stop.
This is notify.
And if we set them and we get a number of failures which breaks the threshold, we see
that's filled in and we get some indicator of that.
And that's a good way of seeing whether things are important.
You can act on those things.
It's very flexible in that way.
So let's actually use this or make this useful by setting threshold levels.
Okay.
Let's see right here.
So basically, we want to use the action levels function to do this.
And within that, there's like three arguments which are you can use any number of them,
one of them, all three of them, it's totally up to you.
And these are fractions right here.
We can also include like numbers, like one at the first failure.
But here we're just using fractions right here.
So basically, it would be like this number right here, which are again, under the fail.
So we're going to warn at 15% of testing is failing per step, we're going to stop, not
really stop, but they'll just indicate in the S column when 25% of testing is fail and
notify at 35%.
Okay.
So this is basically, this is pretty benign because it doesn't actually do any of these
things.
You could set an action for when each of these are entered with another argument, but we're
not going to do that because it's a bit too complicated for this workshop, but we're going
to do this at least.
So we're going to make that object from action levels, we can actually print it and see the
results.
It gives you sort of like a indication of what you did right there.
So more than failure threshold of 0.15 of all test units.
Okay.
So this is a default for every single step and you could, in a given step, change that,
but we're just going to run with the default for all test units like this.
Okay.
So I sort of explained that here.
I think I reasonably explained that just earlier.
So I'll just skip past that.
So agent two is going to be very similar to agent, the first one, we're going to have
a few more of these like validation functions within, like this regex one, for instance.
Yeah.
And, but the key thing that's different here is in actions inside create agent, we're going
to introduce that action levels object, which is right here.
So let's actually run this and then I will copy this over here and we'll see the new
report in the viewer.
Okay.
So quite a bit different.
We have more stuff happening.
Basically we have these action levels right here.
These are failure thresholds sort of like as, as fractional values.
So we see right here in step two, we have a little bit of yellow here on the left signals
warning, and we see that this is filled in right here because we have more, you know,
0.15 of units failing.
So we get the CSV as before.
This happens when there's any test failures, but we see these when there's a threshold
being broke through.
Calls that Val's regex really failed a lot, like almost more than half of its test units
failed.
So we get all three of them being filled in.
So we see it's active because we have these sort of like open circles, which means that
it's, you know, it could enter these states, but the filled ones means it did.
So that's what we have here.
So this is good.
So this is a good report.
And we have these indicators on the left, which are colors, which sort of mirror we
have here.
So if you have a green, like a solid green like this, that means everything passed flawlessly.
If you have a lighter green, not everything passed, but we didn't enter any of these conditions
like WS or N.
Okay.
So that's basically how you read the report and continue down.
So like I said before, you could do, this is a default right here.
These action level thresholds.
But any step there's actually an art and actions argument, and you can set like a different
action levels value for that.
So for this one right here, calls about call vows between we're saying column D should
have values between zero and 4,000, but here we're specifying its own action levels value.
And we're saying here, we're using absolute values.
I'm saying one at one failure and stop at three notified five.
Okay.
So let's actually run this.
Great.
So it's doing this little thing in the console.
I'm going to show the report.
Hey, Rich, you got a question you want me to ask those as they come up or do you want
to just wait till the end?
Please do.
Yeah, that'd be, that'd be great.
Actually.
Yeah.
Okay.
Someone asked, is it possible to change the report title if you want to share it with
colleagues?
You absolutely can.
Yeah.
So I'm going to do that right now because it's a good thing to do.
So it's basically get agent report, and there's a field there called title.
So by default it's called the bolt, but you just give it any title you want, like my title
and just run that.
And it appears there.
And there's a few other little keywords that do nice things, like maybe the table date
becomes a title, but anything's marked down here too, as well.
So no nicety.
I'll just show that it's not really obvious.
There we go.
So that's bolted down.
So yeah, definitely you can do that.
You can, you can customize with get report, get agent report, but by default, you know,
just printing out the agent itself, you just get the defaults, but it's highly customizable
with this function.
Okay.
So continuing on, we have this now and we see that call values between, yeah, it's between
zero and 4,000.
This changed.
So basically right here, there's one test failure, but it's signaled a warn because we set here,
you know, warn at equals to one.
So that's different than the rest.
We don't really get an indication of it, but we just kind of know from our code, I suppose.
So that's, that's, we can do, we can customize per step or just have defaults that run through
all the steps.
Okay.
So I'm going to skip past and I'm going to give you a brief look.
I can't describe all of these validation functions.
There are certainly a lot.
There's 36 of them.
Suffice to say that they do have really detailed help articles.
If I go to any one of these, like call vals between, for instance, oops, I did it wrong.
There we go.
So they have very long help articles and each one, they're not lumped together in terms
of like, there's lots of these in one help article.
Each one has its own help article.
And the good thing about it is that it does have examples, which are fully worked out.
And there's actually images as well, showing you what you expect.
So these are totally runnable.
I try to set, make the examples in a way that, you know, it's like a mixture of pros and
the example itself, it shows an image.
So, you know, if you land here, you kind of have something to go by.
Okay.
So there's lots of these basically.
And I hope it covers most of the common checking scenarios.
If you don't, if you find one that doesn't quite cover it, there's actually one called
specially, which allows you to just use any function you want and sort of like go manual
as it were, but it still appears in the report, which is kind of a nice common ground or middle
ground.
So there's lots of them, but they can be described as sort of like groups.
You can see there's some commonalities in the names.
So I'll go through that pretty quickly right now.
So the functions, the validation functions at Beegamoth call vals right here.
What they do is, and this is what you've seen, they check individual cells within one or
more columns.
And here's a nice little tidbit that you may not know, because you're just learning this
right now.
You don't have to use an agent.
I mean, you get the report and everything, but you can use the validation functions directly
on the data.
And if you do that, it acts like a sort of like a validation filter.
The data will just pass through unchanged if the validation passes, but it will error,
like truly error if it doesn't pass.
So let me show you that.
So a small table as before, I'll show it to you in the console again.
So we have a reference here, make this a little bit bigger.
There we go.
So call vals between focusing on column A, which is right here, the integer column, we
expect that values are between zero and 10.
And they really are.
I could just take a look at it here.
So you run this, you just get the data.
Okay.
So if you choose like something that's not correct between five and 10, there's definitely
values less than five.
So let's run this.
You get an error.
And you get an explanation for the error too.
You see here it says exceedance of failed test units where values in A should have been
between five and 10.
That's what you wrote down here.
But really you got like, you got like 10 failures in this whole thing, which is quite
a few.
So it's greater than the threshold of one.
So automatically the first error will cause a stop.
You can set that with threshold.
It's like a simple version.
Actually, you know, it's action levels, but you can actually use actions here if you wanted
to and set it yourself.
I won't do that for sake of time, but it can be set here.
Okay.
So another one is...
Questions real quick, if you want to tackle them.
Awesome.
First question is, is it possible to build a new validation function?
It is.
Yeah, it is.
It's not easy.
You might want to take what you have in terms of the available validation functions.
I guess like these are considered as primitives.
But also you can do it...
There's a few ways.
It's not so easy to describe quickly, but you can use something like call valise expression,
name your function as the thing you want to be called, and then like use this internally
and then provide the expression there.
That's one way of doing it.
Another way is using specially.
That also takes a function, but it does it in a different way.
It's more like loose.
It's more like...
More forgiving.
It does less checking of the existence of a table, for instance.
And you can wrap that in your own function and then set a few things.
So you can definitely do it.
And I think one of the answered issues in the point blank repo has some examples of
this.
Unfortunately, I can't really dig those out right now, but it's been asked before and
it seems to be totally possible.
Making a whole brand new one that ties into point blank and uses all its features, that's
not so easy because it's really sort of like intertwined with all sorts of reporting things.
But you can definitely use it by wrapping one of these or one or more of these functions
to make a sort of like a special one.
Awesome.
There's another one here.
As I think there are no factors in the example, any comments on how the package works with
factors?
Yeah.
It doesn't do a great job with factors because that's a bit sort of a special thing.
I mean, you can use like these special functions, like specially, which we're not going to get
into and also call vals exper expression where you can pass your own expression and you expect
to get like a vector of like true false.
You can definitely use that.
But things like, you know, the other ones where, you know, you're checking like ranges.
I'm not quite sure, actually, how that would work.
But if you do use it and it doesn't work, pass me an issue because like that part hasn't
really been addressed as well as it probably could be.
Awesome.
One more.
It says that we may get to this later, but is it possible to check for something like
specific proportions adding up to 100%?
Yes.
Yeah.
To do that, I would recommend making like a metric, like using basically creating a
different column.
You can do that in any of these functions right here.
Like say, for instance, okay, maybe we can just do that right now.
We can rattle that off.
So we have create agent.
And then we pass in small table.
Yeah.
And then we want to check that something equals something like proportion.
So let's try that.
Small table, we do want to do call vals equal, for instance.
And we don't have like a column like that where we can actually just add it up and get
like 100.
But let's pretend a bit just to see the concept here.
So let's find out what this does here.
So call vals equal.
And then we will do columns.
We'll make a new column.
So we'll call it x.
And we'll do preconditions.
And I believe we can do, maybe we'll call it x just because it's a new name.
Okay.
Rich, there's quite a few questions that are coming in the Zoom chat.
Do you want to take a look at those?
Do you want me to read them to you or keep going and come back to them?
Maybe keep going and come back to them.
Okay.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
So we can do this.
Okay.
So we can do something like we can mutate.
Just get rid of that extra tilde.
Great.
And then in this case, we're using mutate.
And we'll say y.
Well, we won't actually do the thing that was asked, but we'll do something similar.
We'll say like y will equal a plus 10.
Okay.
And then we want to see that values are maybe greater than 10.
So let's do this.
Value 10.
Okay.
So we have to interrogate.
So what we're doing here is we're actually making a new column, y.
And you could do a summary and try to get all the values in a column and make a table
which has one row and maybe that one column, and then check if it equals something.
In this case, we're doing something totally different, but the concept is the same.
You're taking this preconditions argument, you're mutating the table, you're making this
new column, and you're checking that column at the same time.
So it's a bit, it's two parts that go together.
But once you get that idea that you can like sort of like at any step, you can like change
the table and then check that change table.
That's kind of nice.
Because like you don't have to have a whole bunch of functions that check every little
tiny thing.
You can make the metric and then check that new metric, even in just like one step.
You just got to be confident that the change you make is correct.
And I hope that somewhat answers the question in a roundabout way.
Okay.
But I'm going to carry on and I'm going to move on to like these call is functions.
Basically what they are, and we've already seen them, is a column is of a certain type.
So call is character, checks for a character column, and you know the rest.
So that's what that does.
There's two rows underscore functions, rows distinct and rows complete.
They check for entire rows.
We've already seen like rows distinct, just checks for duplicate rows, if there are any
that's a failing test unit, or it could be as many like test units failing as there are
duplicate rows.
Rows complete just checks every single row and looks for any values.
So if there's any value, then it's basically a failing row and a failing test unit.
Okay.
So let's check these.
We know we have like duplicate rows in this table.
I put one in on purpose.
It's basically rows nine and 10.
So if you actually run this, we get an error automatically.
If you just take the head of the small table, which avoids a duplicate rows, it works fine.
We just get the data out.
Because if you apply these validation functions directly on the data, again, it just passes
the data through.
Okay.
Rows complete.
We know this fails because we have an NA somewhere in there.
Tells you that right here.
If you just take a few of the columns, you could, in the columns argument of rows complete,
constrain the check to just a few columns, which is kind of neat.
Same thing happens or is possible for rows distinct.
So if you just want to check one or two ID values that they're unique, you can do that
with this function or with that argument, I should say.
Great.
So that passes it through the whole table.
We just checked daytime, date, and A and B because there's no IDs there.
And it works.
Okay.
There's a number of match functions.
These are a little bit complicated, or at least some of them are a bit complicated.
I will show you two examples here of row count match and call count match.
We're just checking that the count of rows for the entire table is, it beats an expectation.
So we know the small table has 13 rows.
If you run this, it passes fine.
And another cool thing is in count, we just pass in another reference table.
And it just looks, you know, it just, we're just matching the count of columns in this
case with that of another table.
So it just so happens that small table has the same number of columns as Palmer penguins
penguins.
If we run this, it passes the day through because it's true.
Okay.
So that's my super quick look at all the validation functions.
Each one, each one of them has a help file with examples that work and are pretty instructive.
It's really hard to like, you know, get at them.
Each one has a different interface too, depending on what they are, they may have different arguments,
but they share a lot of common arguments.
Okay.
So getting data extracts from the field rows.
So we've seen before that, you know, go back a bit, we have these CSV buttons here.
These are all fine and well, but you know, we have our here, so we can just get them,
you know, through our, and actually get the, you know, like the data frames and we can
do that with get data extracts, that function right there.
So let's use get data extracts on agent three and see what it does.
And this is a case where I want to expand the console a bit.
So we get a list of data frames or tables really.
What we see here is like the name, you know, two and three, these are the step indices
that had failures.
Okay.
So if, you know, if, you know, we don't see one, cause it had no failures and we don't
have any extracts.
So yeah, so we get like one extract per validation step that had failures.
Sometimes it's just one thing, sometimes it's a number of rows.
So this is very useful when you want to find out where the error is for a certain step.
That's great.
And if you know the step, you could isolate that.
You can just say like, get the extracts, same agent, but step nine.
Okay.
So let's run that.
It's kind of cool.
We just get the table out that way.
The only key thing is you have to know what, what step is what, but if you know it, then
it's kind of useful to use this.
Okay.
So basically what we're doing in this phase of like the module is we got an agent and
we're doing stuff with it.
You know, we have the report.
That's great.
But we, you know, we want to do things, you know, with, you know, with the data that's
in report, there's actually tons of data underlying the report.
So one more thing we could do is getting something called sundered data back.
I definitely use it at the source for this one.
So basically, when I made this function, basically what this does is it splits your input data
frame or whatever table into two parts the past data piece, basically no failing test
units and the failed data piece.
So if some rows have like, you know, like failing test units, that row is, is automatically
sort of like listed as like a fail row, you know, in a way even if there's like no test
on it, it'll still be pass.
So basically the differentiation is if the row had failures, then it's part of that fail
extra or fail piece.
And otherwise it's part of the past one.
Okay.
So let's actually it's really hard to describe much easier to show.
So let's actually do that.
So here's a new agent making, it's agent four, pretty simple.
We only got two validation steps inside.
Column values greater than a thousand for column D, column values between, oh, this
is kind of cool, two different columns.
So we can do a cool thing like for like the value, we can actually reference a column
and say like, okay, so the volumes, the values in column C should be between the values in
column A and column D. And you can do, you know, literal values, you can mix and match,
you can have a literal value here, a column value, you know, a column reference here or,
or vice versa.
Okay.
But let's just run an agent for this validation.
We're doing all three steps, create agent, validation steps, and then interrogate.
Okay.
So we see this, this is great.
I'm just going to type in agent four and we get the default report.
Looks pretty good.
We didn't set any, like any of these like action levels, totally fine.
We're not really looking at that, but yeah, we see this, we get some failures in both
steps.
Okay.
Great.
So now we're going to do a thing where we take this agent and we use the get sender
data function on it.
Okay.
So what it does is, well, by default, it gives you the rows that pass like the good
ding piece.
Okay.
So these are basically from those two tests, the only pieces, like the only parts or rows
of the table that didn't have a failure.
Okay.
You can change that around.
Like I said, that's just a default.
You can just get the, you can get the fail piece as well by saying type equals fail.
Okay.
So these rows should add up, right?
These sets of rows, they're also exclusive.
These rows should combine to make the original data set.
So that's a promise from the package.
You can do different things too.
You can also have a combined view.
What that does is it gives you like another column, we call it PB combined.
And it's essentially like a flag column.
It tells you whether it passed or failed, which is kind of cool.
Sometimes you just need to have the whole data frame and like this column right here.
And the nice thing is right away, you don't have to accept what this is, like in terms
of the values, you can set different things.
You can set a pass fail vector.
And so in this case, now pass will be true and fail will be false and the column will
be changed to logical, which is kind of cool.
And also, you know, it's pretty flexible.
You can choose integers as well.
As long as you have two values and the first one is pass, the second one is fail.
Then you got this right here.
And you can switch these values around.
So that's what this does, get centered data.
Basically, it allows you to split the data in case you want to use the data.
You do some tests, but you just want to get like the data that didn't fail any of those tests.
There's probably some situations where that's pretty, pretty acceptable.
Okay.
Phil, this is not a bad time for more questions because I covered a lot here.
If there's any that relate to this, maybe they don't relate to this.
Okay.
If you're not there, I'll just keep going.
So we have another function called get agent X list.
Again, it uses an agent object, just like those past two functions did.
But this is kind of like when you just want to get at the information, like that sort
of gold mine of like interrogation info and like, you know, like do your own little investigation
independent of this table, which is useful, but sometimes you just want the data.
So let's do that.
We'll make an X list by just using the get agent X list function like so, I'll run that.
Great.
And I will actually copy this into the console here.
And if you do that, you get a printout like in the console of what's in the X list.
It gives you, it sort of echoes back, you know, it's small table.
You're basically looking at all steps.
That's a default.
You can look at individual steps too.
And some of the arguments of this function, get agent X list, but we're looking at, you
know, things holistically.
So this is kind of cool.
It gives you like all the, all the components of the list.
So I can do dollar sign and look at, for instance, okay, I'll start a complete, but I won't do
that.
So basically that's the number of test units and failed.
You can look at that.
Great.
Just good.
You can look at one, basically I say, so this is kind of cool.
So you can sort of see if it was any warnings at all, just by wrapping with any true there
were.
to Understand, Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank
to Understand, and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Understand, and Validate,
Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Validate, and Validate, and
Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank
to Validate, and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Validate,
Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, Validate, and Document your Data,
pointblank to Validate, and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Validate,
and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Validate, and Document your Data,
and Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank to Validate, and Document your Data, and Validate, and Document your Data,
so let me show you how that email looks i'm just going to like run this separately
this is not set up you'd have to use blastula another great package by the way um but this
will create the the message body for for blastula and then you can like take it away with like you
know putting in the your you know your mail credentials and then sending it to whomever you
want so let me just show you what that email looks like okay agent three is obviously very big okay
here we go so it'll do this stuff for you automatically it'll just generate the symbol
text you can change all this stuff this is all very customizable uh but it'll put down it'll
include a pretty stripped down version of the table uh just with the essentials units pass fail
the states and then you know stuff like that um so this is a message body that can go into
what's basically it just makes a blastula object and then you can just send it off
uh this is customizable like i said you can do things i'm not going to get into it but you can
just expose what failed and not the stuff that didn't fail um so there's options for all that
okay uh so i'm going to get into more customizing uh like but actually showing it so the title of
the agent report so i showed this earlier i'm going to show it to you again basically this
is changing the title we can use markdown so we have the double stars on each side of the third
put it in bold and we can do other things that are marked down like bad ticks and
you know underscores things like that so that's nice uh we can also um yeah this is the thing
where i'm customizing the report just by like things that failed sometimes you just want the
bad news so we're going to arrange by severity that's one of the keywords it's all in the get
agent report help document so basically it's not excluding the um of course you can do that
the steps that didn't fail but it's putting the ones which did fail at the top in order of
severity so the ones that you know have stopped are first then just warning or second group and
then the rest uh so that's great um yeah so right here keep fail states so this is where we exclude
things which are not failing okay so let's run this so still arranging by severity but we're
basically excluding all the the green rows okay sometimes you just want this just to get get down
to it oh another cool thing uh since this is a package that can be used all over the world
we have a lang argument here so if you do get asian report lang de and then just run that we
have things which are you know like um you know in this case it's german but there's a bunch of
other languages too i think there's 11 languages included and so it should have little explanations
um but you know focus on each of the things right here you can sort of see like you know
this is great because like sometimes your stakeholders don't know english um and this
is meant to be shared so that's a kind of cool thing okay uh so to summarize i think the timing
is pretty good for this first module i thought it'd be like too long questions of course i will
handle but um but this is not bad this is good pacing i think um so to summarize so data validation
in point blank you need an agent you need a bunch of validation functions and interrogation it's kind
of like a sandwich as it were of validation functions okay and the agent what it tries to do
is create a report that's informative and easily explainable at least once you once you get the
basics you know this is pretty explainable i think um we can set data quality thresholds with the
action levels function and so with that um there's default dq the day quality uh thresholds
and we can also set set step specific thresholds okay okay there's 36 validation functions
having a similar interface and many common arguments uh that can be used with an agent
or directly on the data and remember if you use it directly on the data that's a totally
different workflow you're basically just like probably running it in a notebook and you want
to fail if one of these validation steps fails so that's that's the difference there the agent
gives you the report there's no failing of that like uh during the running of it uh we can get
data extracts and these data extracts are pertaining to failing test units and these are mainly with uh
you know cells in in a row that fail and also like um you know like duplicate rows it'll show those
as well uh so that's extracts you can use get data extracts with that to get those uh you can use
you can get splits of the original data set uh it's kind of like a different type of extract
but it's like a it's like basically two tables you can choose one or the other or get a unified
report uh it basically just deciding which rows have failing test units and that's like giving
one part of the split the other split is either no test or passing okay get agent next list
that gives you like essentially a list if you print it you get a sort of indication at the
console what components are in the list you can basically access everything that's in this report
through that list so you can go at it more programmatically uh email is supported through
the blastula package email create is one way of doing it it gives you the message body you
just pass it to blastula so long as you know that other package uh connecting it to isn't so bad
and again the report it can be modified in lots of different ways adding into all them
with get agent report okay so that's the beginning or sorry that's the end of the first
uh module uh i will take any questions any more questions you have if anyone's available to ask
them to me uh yep rich i will get going with the question remaining
all right uh i think one of them is um i think just starting from the earlier one
uh do we have a check that can check something like the specific portion and it got to 100
oh yeah i didn't answer that uh sorry sorry basically i can deal with uh preconditions
it's an argument that's available in all validation functions um basically how it works is
you you know create a new column you can make a summary of the table the table can be totally
reshaped have different columns it's totally fine it's very forgiving as long as you reference the
the column that's in the new table up here in columns uh so my recommendation is for you know
tests which do some sort of like you know like uh create some new data or you need to like you
know like calculate something i would use preconditions for that thank you uh next one
is possible to compare validation errors with each other from one analysis to the next
i will get into that later so that is a report which is sort of like um
you have maybe the same target table and you have the same steps or maybe slightly different
versions of the steps and you're comparing across different runs or maybe different time periods
you're doing the same check that's totally possible uh that's a different type report
using a multi-agent i will get into that a little bit later in the in the workshop but it's possible
again great all right can the validation include a combination of several columns
like if a isn't missing then column b isn't yes uh there's a function for that i'll go to the help
i won't really show an example because there are examples in there it's called conjointly
and you provide you're providing multiple robust validations for joint validity
basically you you want to check that you know things are true across right like this has to
be true and this has to be true pass this is true this is false fail you know any any any
one failure will trigger like that and if it's something more complex um we can definitely do
call valves exper right here or help document uh does the calm daddy agree with the predicate
expression so basically i have some examples down here of that and you can do more complex things
like it has expression like you know it's just correct and you can definitely involve more
columns in that so you can definitely make something a bit more you know like this in this
case like well it's hard to explain uh you can just case when for example and and do multiple
case by case things so you can definitely get into more complex stuff which involves
multiple columns and you know they all have to like work out with this great uh i think coming
off your question related to extraction um so one thing is how does uh the two is working with
big data okay yeah so maybe you have like a giant data table like you know like millions and millions
of rows um so the extracts have a limit so it's not really i didn't state that there's a default
limit of like 5 000 rows uh so if we go to interrogate i'll show you where that lives
basically right here yeah right here sample limits right here so that's what that means
uh you know by default we extract field true you can shut that off if you want to uh you can change
the way the extracts are gathered as well but we do have a limit so like it'll actually like pull
or collect those values uh from the database and uh it won't you know like uh kill your connection
with like you know extracting millions of rows which i think this is sufficient you can change
this obviously but uh you know unlimited is a good thing i think this kind of answer similar
question is maybe setting a sampling percentage is it can be done uh yeah there's a frack that's
a pretty much percentage yeah so you can set that to like 0.1 or whatever yeah yeah and i think
another one is can you well can you actually name the data extract in each step oh i see yeah
instead of just i like a number um no not really not right now not so easy because like uh you
don't really know what steps you're getting like there's no great unique name i mean it's going to
be well okay hang on here because in each each validation step you could set a label for it
but the label is more like not like an id we do have an id here as well but it's tough to do in
that list as well um but if you find that you'd rather have like you know like get extracts
you know provide everything by step ids which definitely are collected and they're made for
you if you don't actually set one yourself i would say provide an issue and then we can have
like a switch in get agent extracts to either name them by like you know step number or step id and
you can definitely fill that in um i think that would be that would be good but yeah currently
we can't really do that great i'm trying to read a few more just pop up from the zoom um okay uh
can the test name be relabeled to show a string description instead of our function call
yes uh well sort of uh there's a hybrid approach there so we can do a thing where we insert a label
right below this shifts up but the label will appear and it'll take as much as two lines i
think so definitely you can do that um do i have an example here not really can i book one up fast
maybe not really as well but let me show you where that lives anyways so like call valves
between so you would include you would use it right
label right there so i'm not going to do it but you just this is like you know descriptive
label okay there's also another thing called uh briefs which you make you can make as long as
you want it automatically generates one for you that's what you're actually seeing here
um you expect that column date time is of type posix you can write a really long one here if
you wanted to but it automatically generates one for you so it's like two places one that's like
a label that'll appear right here and one is a pretty long text which is by default automatically
generated that you can just have um and program programmatically programmatically extract later
all right uh two more i think we're getting to the end uh how would you select columns from a
data frame to include the data extract reports after validation how would you choose which columns
are oh which how you select column from the data frame to include in the data extract reports after
the validation yeah i think you can't really do that i think by default it will just include the
entire row with all the columns um i believe get data extracts does not do that um but what you
can do is when you do get data extracts you can use an l apply and just like select certain columns
you have to be a little bit careful but you can apply it through each of the
list components and just do like a sub selection or a subset
okay not very satisfying but yeah that's one way of just getting around that all right final one
can i parallelize the validation using more than one core i believe you can um oh the validation
itself oh no that's something that i should probably be doing if i were because i think
that's not possible they are independent of each other which is great uh but there's no i can't see
any real needs of do of like you know like splitting it up and then recombining it in the
end in a paralyzed fashion uh really if speed is a big thing and it might be um especially if you
know huge amounts then i would maybe file an issue and i can take a look into some parallelization
there's some things which maybe not this but some other things which should be parallelized in the
package but these are generally pretty fast with the database though it might be a bit slower but
we're not doing anything very complex when we do queries on a database they're pretty simple
operations thanks rich i think that's the end of the question that i can find at the moment
great good um should we have a short break maybe like a five-minute break just like
decompressed maybe look a few minutes or the host your call okay let's do it let's do it
so 105 eastern time no let's do 106 eastern time we'll recommence and scan your data the next module
thank you you're welcome
you
okay i think we could resume um go into the next module the next one is called scan your data
it's going to focus on two functions uh the first one is what i'm running right now it's called scan
data so what is that um well it makes a table scan so what is that uh basically you got a new data
set you want to understand what's in that data set and well scan data can give you that that sort of
rundown of what's in there i know in r there's a ton of packages that do this stuff um this is just
one more that does the same thing um but i'm hoping that this is pretty good and it fits your
needs i mean like it kind of like it goes in with it pairs nicely with data validation because you
have to sort of understand your data get the lay of the land as it were uh before you you know you
really get down to it and like create validation functions so this is kind of i'm using uh uh from
the palmer payments package the penguins raw data set that contains more data than just the penguins
data set uh so basically what it shows me right here at the very beginning there's like a section
report it's all in html uh you have sections here we can just go through we can see we ran the report
you know you get some like you know environment information here uh understand how many columns
and rows we have and the na's column types it's a brief summary of the table and then this is
really cool uh you can go and toggle these details and see like for every column what's going on like
we even have like little gg plots being made uh so sample number this is not going to be that
exciting but uh we do have for some things which are you know for instance numerical values we have
some stats here we go so common length millimeters uh toggle details we got some you know serious
stats here in these different tabs which is kind of neat uh so we can really understand whether
things you know what how the data is arranged what it looks like generally but also we can find some
errors if things really creep out you may see a maximum that is kind of like you know not right
um of course in this data we don't have that but you know who knows what you'll find and that can
be the basis for creating uh validation functions in your you know validation checks so i'm just
going to skip through this a bit more but essentially it's kind of like this it so it
knows about different types of columns and it gives you a different display uh based on those
we also have this interactions table it's kind of like uh just a nice sort of correlation plot
and uh it you can mix and match you know character values and factors um you know with numerical
values and it it does its thing makes density plots and things like that so kind of neat
uh correlations it's good to have as well um you can sort of see really quickly what correlates
with what uh and what doesn't and what anti-correlates uh missing values this is kind of
like uh like a little plot and it shows you know which columns have lots of missing values so you
know this is like a fraction of missing values in each sector so each one of these like little
squares is kind of like a a bundle of rows or bundle of cells really because they're split up
and you sort of see here that yeah comments i mean not too many comments so that's you know mostly
empty um you know 84 empty but you can sort of see it right there it's kind of nice and here you
can sort of see at the end we're getting a lot of missing values uh right near the end so
interesting sort of like and see here that blue no missing values at all not even one so that's
what this shows sample just gives you a little table gives you the first five rows uh last five
rows and it's kind of just to sort of see the table um you know so you have some context about
you know in case you forgot uh so that's scan data it's kind of cool and you can customize
the report you don't have to have all the sections here uh the default value sections is basically
this like little string that's glommed together each of these letters represents a different part
you can just change that change the order even just by the way you present the letters and then
you know arrange the report that way so you have a little or as much as you want different order
it's totally fine uh so this is kind of cool uh safety data so we have this dss right here
i'm just going to like look at it quickly just a lot of columns a lot of variables okay so let's
actually run this so we just want sections the overview uh sample in second and then variables
last i'm gonna run that it's kind of nice because it gives you like a little rundown of what's
happening um this is probably a good candidate for parallelizing because the variable section
is a bit slow um and that's totally on me to make faster but it does again a lot of stuff
like a lot of ggplots a lot of sections a lot of html being generated um if it weren't for
html tools this probably wouldn't be as easily made but we're using that uh to sort of generate
the report sort of a bespoke report as it were okay so it's taking a while so we'll just continue
with this uh we'll wait i'll just describe that yeah with scan data you can present the results
in different languages um i had a lot of time on my hands so i was able to translate a ton of stuff
and like make all these different languages um you know like basically all the little labels that we
have here like sample will be translated to those languages so kind of cool okay so that one took
nearly a minute um hopefully it doesn't take very long to show that's a that's a viewer thing
but we can keep going um oh no here we go okay so safety data adam adae okay great so we have the
same report i guess the thing i want to show you okay there's sample right here so it can handle
a pretty wide table that's totally fine uh but the thing i want to show you is oh look at this
if we have labels in a data set it shows label which is kind of cool that's not too often in
most data sets but i think every single adam uh data set here has that so that's kind of cool
it's kind of a nice thing we have that in there so cool so it supports that
uh that's been the only other thing i'm going to show you uh character string lengths it's
kind of neat we can sort of see this um but it won't go too much into that because i believe
you covered that before okay great so kind of neat we can do that uh i'll make one more table scan
just to show you something you can do with this um well really there's lots of things you can do
with this uh this publish button is is here again so we can publish this to lots of places um you
know our pubs if you want to go that way uh we can publish it to cordo connect this is all very
publishable we can remove this top navigation bar that can be totally removed i think i did that
earlier right here now bar false so you can customize it that way i've even done things
like putting this in an iframe and including it somewhere else that's totally possible so
it's pretty flexible it's based on bootstrap um and it's you know useful mostly for like
interactive things but it can also be shared okay so let me show you this table scan so i
saved it to an object right here you can totally do that and this one is based on the dplyr storms
dsn so same sort of thing okay but the thing i'm going to show you is that you can export this to
an html file so export report it handles all sorts of different objects in point blank the agent report
other types of reports you haven't seen this one uh you just give it the thing
it can be the table scan it can be the agent it could be like the report from the agent you get
from get agent report it accepts a lot and then you give it a file name and it makes a complete
html file for you so i have that in the files here um table scan storms i'm just going to pull
a little bit you click this you can open a browser there you go it's very shareable it's basically
its own document great okay so that's all i'm going to say about scan data it's a cool function
i'm trying to make that even better i'm always going to iterate on that and make it more useful
and hopefully i'll get the speed issue because i recommend getting some tea when you just run
scan data or you know whatever uh okay so here's a different type of scan but it's sort of like uh
it sort of dovetails what we did before which is validation uh we have this function
called draft validation so what does that do well what i often do when i don't know what something
does is i look at the help okay nice draft a starter point blank validation dot r dot rd file
with a data table so this is kind of like a magical thing you basically give it a table
there's not much to it i mean it has some of the same like arguments as create agent because it
just passes through uh but what it'll do is it'll create yeah a new file with a bunch of suggested
uh validation steps so and it promises to work the first time so let's take a look at that uh
so with dplyr storms this is the d7 one yeah so that's the display in the console it's got all
sorts of things it's got some uh you know month day hour latitude longitude other values great
so let's just pass that all the way to like right into draft validation okay here's a new concept
when you pass a table into table you can start with a tilde so what does that do uh basically
that's instructions on fetching the table you may have something much more complicated where you
actually have to do a few steps like you know like read csv with reader and then like you'll pass it
in and maybe the data changes you know as you're getting it so what this will do is every time it
runs or does an interrogation it'll refetch the table using this so it won't be like included
right away when you run this you know create agent it'll run when you interrogate it so
kind of interesting kind of subtle basically just lazily grabbing the table just in time
so if you include that tilde that's what it does i'm including it here because when i create the
agent it's going to pass that through and i'm going to run this in fact i already did and it's
in the files um basically it makes a new file uh storms hyphen validation and it gives it a dot r
as well okay so let's run let's take a look at that uh storm validation right here or open that up
so i swear this is what it did okay so it basically it it makes this it provides comments here
uh basically these are the these are the briefs that it auto generates for you
and it just puts them in line you can choose to not have that there's an option there in draft
validation um if you just look here like add comments you can set that to false
and uh yeah but by default it just puts those in in line and it makes all this and it runs
it's kind of neat so let's actually run it so there we go agent
brilliant okay now we're going to actually run the aid in itself to get that report
nice and everything you see it ran perfectly fail because it's taking the data as it is
and assumes it's like you know like a good extract of data you can totally change all
these things like this may be no not right it may be a bit larger like these bounds um
you know like these are definitely tweakable you can tweak them a little bit and you can
um you know like these are definitely tweakable so it gives you like a start uh you don't have
to type all stuff in manually you can just start with this you can delete parts you you have a
sort of like a template as well and a really cool thing with this is that it understands
certain types of columns it'll do like it'll look into things like it knows that long is longitude
so it knows what the bounds are even if there's no one minus 180 or 180 in the data set it just
kind of knows like this is longitude and if there's lat it knows about latitude as well
there's a bunch of things it does it's called column profiling it basically it goes by the
column name it does like another cursory check inside the data and if it all kind of looks like
it is what it really is like what it expects it is it'll set the validation values to be
you know like more or less like standardized correct values and we have another function
here we haven't seen yet um expect that column schemas match so what we're saying here is that
these columns exist and there are these types and they're in this order right here so basically this
is a column schema it's kind of a pain to like write out so it's kind of nice that draft validation
does this for you basically if your columns change order or if they change the names or
if their types change this will detect that basically it'll fail if it's not this so it
captures the schema of the table so super neat it'll guarantee the work it pops in a action
levels value for you like a little statement here and it does the same sort of thing here
it passes in the table to this part okay i know this is a lot any questions about this at all
um rich i think there's one question it's about the scan data can you customize information show
in the details okay okay in the details um
which details sort of i mean not really um you can't really do too much here you can like i
said you can only change like a few aspects of this because this is more or less like just like
a template and it gives you what it gives but you can change the order of things and like you know
get rid of at least the top bar um and oh i see what you mean maybe these details i know currently
you cannot but i would love to have it so like you can like programmatically like insert different
like statements for a certain type like a custom type that you might have and just give you like
the machinery to like or like the the way in to like you know set different like tabs and to do
that currently it's not available um but that could be opened up as a custom thing uh later on
i would thank you i never got that request before i would suggest although i thought of it but you
know put it in the issue in the repo and i will definitely like you know like uh pencil that in
for like future work because that's a that's a good one it's a kind of an obvious one actually
uh it's a kind of interesting question too um what will be you consider as a competing package
for the analysis that's being performed here sorry what's the question again okay sorry uh
what are the competing package for this type of amazing analysis oh do you mean like this type
of scan yeah yeah i guess so yeah i guess it's quite a few uh like skimmer is one big one um
i believe a summary uh table summary i kind of is also um it's hard to come up with names when you
when it comes right down to it uh there's at least a half dozen to maybe a dozen of them um
i i bet you the most popular one at the moment is skimmer and i don't know what it is i think
it's called h i don't know there's a few of them yeah there's common one is narnia and one is this
data yes narnia is one yeah it basically it does a lot of this but i think it's getting into the
other stuff too although i don't seem to have the missing data report here but that's also
quite similar it does a much better job with that because it it does have many more it specializes
in that yeah basically i'm trying to do this is make this general but sort of like have like a
lot of breadth really as it were and um yeah there's there's a great few of it but i think
skimmer is probably the one of like that's the most popular of these types i think one last
just pop out what's the suggested data size limit for a scan um it's a good question what's
the upper limit um i think what makes it slow would be like more columns because for each column
it's creating one of these sections
to Understand, Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank
and just lots of them essentially. So, yeah, that's pretty much it. Yeah, I wouldn't go too high.
Great, thanks. That's all the questions I found now. Okay, great, thanks. Okay, so I'll continue
on. First, I'll summarize. There's not much to summarize in this little section, but I'll do it
anyways. So, I said here it's a great idea to examine data you're unfamiliar with, with scan
data, and even better idea is using draft validation because we can skip a lot of like
frustration, especially initially, and maybe always use draft validation just to
just to get those tables, you know, within the validation framework right away without having to
like, you know, research every single thing. I mean, like I said before, it's a great jumping
off point. You can always tweak things. It's guaranteed to work initially because it's just
based on the data, and you may discover lots of things you may, you probably won't think of,
and it's pretty comprehensive. It checks columns for existence, you know, through the schema.
It checks for types. It checks for duplications of rows, and, you know, if there are duplicates,
it won't add that step, but it tries to populate a pretty large, populate the validation
phase with a lot of steps, which is good. So, yeah, I recommend these. There's lots of like
little customizations you can do. I think it's a great way to start off. I probably should have
left with that, but I wanted to sort of like, you know, start with some theory first, I suppose.
Okay, so I'm going to close this up. I see some stuff in the chat, but maybe nothing. Oh, yeah,
okay, there we go. Not too much in terms of questions, so I'll move on to the third
module here. We're making great time here, which is kind of good, so a little worried about that.
Okay, so functions, functions, functions. This package has lots. We actually have like
another set of functions which mirror exactly all those validation functions you've seen,
except they include expect at the beginning or test at the beginning. So, indeed, if you look
at one of these like, well, not this, but if you look at any one of these function documents,
I kind of lied before because like each one of these like health articles does include quite
a few functions, but they're of the same type. So, there's call vows between, which is the
validation function. Use that with an agent or directly on the data. Okay, and again, okay,
there's more. There's also expect call vows between, and there's test call vows between.
They're all at least with the same, you know, ending. They're all the same type. They're just,
the way they're implemented is a bit different. The way you get out of it is different.
So, I imagine everybody here's heard of test that. It's basically, you know, a testing framework for
our packages. You test functions. This is kind of like that. It fits within that framework.
The expect functions, they are expectation functions that could work inside unit tests.
So, I'll show you that in a second. These test functions, they're a bit different. All they do
is give you true or false afterwards. Okay, so you can use them individually. They're great for
programming. Say you want to have conditionals, you can use one or a bunch of these in your
conditional statement, and you should expect, you know, logicals to be the return value of each of
these. Okay, so that's the differentiation. That's why you have these different, like,
basically cousins of, like, this function here. Okay, so each one of these has, like,
an associate expect and test. So, there's 36, 36, 36 of all these functions that are in the
validation part of the package. Okay, so let's try using this. So, let's use expectation functions.
As I said, test that has a collection of functions that begin with expect.
We copy that, essentially. We fit within that framework. It's not really copying, I guess.
So, we can put the files in, like, a test file inside tests. That's usually how it works. Test
slash test that. Okay. But also, we can run them, like, independently of being inside that
test framework. We can just demonstrate it. Okay, so I'll show you small table C.
It contains these values right here. Okay, so we're going to test that column. So, our expectation
with this column of small table is that values can be between 0 and 10, and any values are
permitted. We have a few NA values. If we don't explicitly permit that, then we'll have failures,
like, failing test units. So, there's a new argument here, NA pass. This is also available
in, like, you know, the standard test function, NA pass. So, if you set that to true, that means
NAs are passing automatically. We're accepting those. Okay. I didn't put the argument names
here, but this is, like, left and right. So, the bounds. Okay. So, let's actually run this.
We get nothing. That's expected. When this works, expect functions, you get nothing.
Basically, nothing's returned. Totally fine. Within, you know, a test framework,
you know, it knows that it passed if nothing's returned. Okay. This one's going to error. I
know that ahead of time. That's how I would label this chunk. This whole thing runs. So,
between 0 and 7 this time, NA pass equals true, just like before, but we reduced the range,
and we know we have an 8 in there and some 9s. So, it's not going to work. So, what you get is
this. It's the same message as before that you've seen before with, you know, just call
values between, but just, like, a little bit different inside of, like, test that. So,
that's a little behind the scenes stuff, but basically this is how you can sort of check
that this works in general. Okay. So, as I said, there's, like, 36 expect functions. It's a lot.
So, it's overwhelming. We can do a kind of a cool thing. We learned how to use draft validation
before to create a validation plan. It's kind of nice. There's also another function,
which is kind of similar in a way. It's called write test that file. What it does is it'll
create a test.r file using the agent from the draft validation file. I sort of combined two
different things here. So, let me show you how that works. I created the files ahead of time,
so you can see that. So, if you run this, you get the file, game revenue validation,
because I set that file name. So, basically this is another dataset in point blank game revenue.
It's kind of a bigger one. It's got, well, 2,000 rows. Not that big, but, you know,
it's bigger than small data, that's for sure. So, we've got this. We made that file, game revenue
validation. Let's take a look at that. Sorry, one sec. Okay. Here we are. Great. So, this is
using draft validation. It does its thing. It creates, like, this giant thing here.
So, what I've added at the bottom, I know this runs perfectly, and it creates an agent right here
and sort of signs it. I've added, like, another line, write test that file, and I've given,
you know, the agent to that. I'm calling this file that this is going to create, game revenue.
I'm just going to put it in the, you know, in the working directory. By default, the path is going
to be, like, the test that path that finds it. So, it does some stuff to, like, try to find where
it should go. But just like this, we're putting it in the working directory. So, if we run this,
I have the file, game revenue. So, it's called test game revenue, because it knows how to name
it to fit within the test that framework. They all begin with test hyphen. So, I'm going to open up
that file. Okay. Great. So, it says at the top, generate by point blank. It libraries in point
blank. It creates that table, because you kind of need that for all the tests. So, it does that
in a separate statement at the top. And then individual, like, tests, like, steps, like,
are encased in their own test that function call. So, we see now expect call is character. Before,
it was just call is character and then all these values. Now, we have expect. So, it's kind of
cool. And what it does also is these functions that begin with expect and test, they have their
own special threshold function. It's kind of like a simplified version of actions, because we don't
really need the full thing there. We just need to have some sort of, like, way to say, like,
this works or this passes or doesn't pass based on a single threshold. So, we have that there. We
have either this or we can do some decimal value. But by default, it always chooses one. Okay. This
can totally be changed because you're just getting a file out of this. But it's kind of cool. So,
now, it's basically this. But in this form. And so, if you were to, say, for instance,
create an R package and you had some data you had to integrate as part of it, you can run tests on
that data. Say the data has to change quite a bit. You're changing the data once in a while.
This is nice to have. You just run this again and see if the data fits those expectations.
And maybe you change these things if the data evolves to something else. But at least you have
something to know that this important data that you're using does fit expectations and it can be
used within this framework. So, kind of cool. Kind of cool. You can do this. Okay. So, I'm
gonna go back. I'm gonna close these down. Great. And those are, again, they're in the repo.
They're in the cloud project. Those will always be there for reference. Those files.
Okay. So, oh, I could have run that. Maybe I will run that right now just so I can see it.
Because, you know, we don't often see that. Okay. So, it's gonna be test game revenue.
The button is here. So, you can actually run it outside of, like, the framework. I'm just
gonna run it. Okay. Testing file using test that. It all passes. Done. Okay. So, if this file were
part of, like, a larger number of tests that were just in that directory, it would be just one row.
But we're just doing an individual file. So, pretty cool. It works.
Okay. Great. So, that's all the expect functions and write test that file. Any questions? I don't
think there are any in the chat. One quick one before we go too far. I think there's a
question about in part two. I'm not sure which part two. But you mentioned the column names
can have a label. How is this done? Ah, yes, yes, yes. Okay. Great. Perfect. Perfect.
I'm not sure how it's done. I think it's through the labeling package, if I remember correctly.
It allows you to have oops, sorry. I'm trying to see how I can do this. Console. Perfect.
If you look at this, it's not obvious at all to me where it is. I think if you use attributes,
they appear. And this is one of those things that I never get right. I'm pretty sure I have it wrong.
Here we go. Names. No, that's not it. Maybe you have to go to individual column. I mean,
I know they're in there. How they get in there is a different story. I'm never quite sure how
to access them. Maybe you have to do a column name. Oh, good. There you go. You have to go
to individual column names. That's where the attribute list. So, label study identifier.
You can do that yourself if you know how to set attributes. I think it's just ATTR.
And then set it. Or you can use a package. I believe it's called labeling. Labeling. Or
labeled. Labeled is the one, I think. Yeah. Yeah, this will be the one. Wish it would give me a
description. But that's not to be. But, yeah, if you use labeled, I think it's easier to set those
labels. Otherwise, you can definitely what point blank does, it looks for the label attribute
in each of the columns. That's how it just looks. If it's not there, it's not going to show anything.
If it is there, pretty rare case, it does show it. But this is the key to it right there.
Thank you. I think that's all. Yeah, thanks. Okay, great. Okay. So, we're back to point blank
test functions. Another variant of these validation functions. So, yeah, collection of
test functions. 36 of them, again. They're used to give us a single true or false. Okay. That's
kind of nice to know. So, say we want a script to error if there are any values in the daytime
column of the small table DSA. So, we can write something like this. So, if I run this, will it
error? No, it didn't. Okay. Because it's not true. Okay. But, you know, and we wrote a little
message, you know, if that were true. The negative case. It's a little crazy. But essentially,
you always want to have, like, you know, like, negative in front. And then, like,
the stop condition inside. Okay. But in this case, this one does have an error. Okay.
So, in this case, we're using test call values increasing. Or the expectation that the call
values are greater than 1 in column A. Either one of these. You don't really know going in.
You just know that one of these is going to be true. It will enter this state right here.
So, I'm going to run it. Yeah. I mean, which one is it? I don't really know. So, let's see
if it's this one. Is this true? That's false. So, it's got to be this one here. I'm going to take
this. Run it. There's your true. Okay. So, the cool thing about this is, you know, you can change
your statement to be, you know, pretty complex. You can change the operators that are used.
You can basically program with these. Because you're just expected to get a true or false.
And you can do what you want with it. So, it's pretty nice when you're programming. Sometimes
you'll need it. Sometimes you won't. We saw with email case, that could be useful. But we were
really, you know, using it sort of differently. But at any rate, this could be useful at certain
points. So, just to sum up, we can validate tabular data and test that workflow with the
expect functions. I did mention that cool function right here. Test that file. Makes it really easy
to take an agent and make a test that file for you from that. Basically, you iterate through
making an agent, running the validation. Looks good. We just capture that in a file and then
put it in the right place for testing. The test underscore functions, that collection is useful
for delving conditional logic in programming contexts. I mean, that's probably better
than other workflows or use cases. But this is the obvious one for me.
All right. We are at maybe halfway through the workshop. And we're at module 3. I think we
can take another break. Breaks are good. I'm gonna say we have three more modules. This is actually
like perfect timing, as it were. And I know these ones are a little bit smaller and, you know,
a bit more relaxing than the first two, which were maybe a bit heavy. Again, any questions about
the first parts or in general? Things were confusing? Now's a great time. Take a break.
First, we can have questions after the break. But how about we take a six-minute break? So,
we're at 15 minutes before the hour. And we'll begin again.
I would try to catch all the questions from Slido or the Zoom. Thank you.
Thanks. Yeah. Because I'm not paying attention to those. But thank you. Appreciate that.
Okay. We are probably back now. I'm trying to think. Sorry. Can I trouble somebody with Slido
updates? I really should have gotten that Slido. That was totally my fault for being...
Yep. Just one more question from Slido. With scan data, can you define and use a grouping
variable, like reporting analysis by gender? No, unfortunately, you can't do that at all.
It just takes columns holistically, and you can't split them. Strangely, though, not strangely,
but incidentally, you can split by, you know, like categories or labels inside a standard
point-blank validation. It's an argument we didn't see, but it's called segments. You just
segment your data, just like a special sort of like way of doing that, the way you define it.
But it basically splits between that. But unfortunately, for scan data, it doesn't happen.
One more. Does a point-blank play well with RStudio Connect deployments,
like a living point-blank report? It does. Katie Macielo in RStudio has been doing a lot
on that front, creating demos. I believe if you go to the repo point-blank demo,
I will just try to find that in GitHub. It has some examples of deployments, and they're
successful deployments as well. They generate daily reports. Let me just see if I can find that
point-blank demo. Okay, here we go. Hopefully, this gets at it. Here we go. Here we go.
Yeah, so we have a few examples here inside these folders.
Oh, you can even see the results too, which is kind of cool. I'm going to paste this into the
chat. Okay, so Connect deployments. Yeah, and it's really nice to see this because it runs like,
it's like a pretty easy way to get daily data quality runs going without too much setup,
which is great. Great, thank you. That's all the questions.
Okay, awesome, awesome. Okay, so we're on to module four now. Okay, so this has to do with
reading about the data validation once again, but we're sort of going to level up a bit. So,
say you're really good at this stuff, and you really like the package. You're really on top of
data quality in your organization, and you want to get serious. So, basically, so the package,
it allows you to do really simple things, like just do simple checks, but also it allows you to
scale up and do more complex things, like you can check a lot of tables. You can do really
comprehensive checks. It's got almost like the sky's the limit. You really want to be on top of
things. So, that's what this module will show you, some ways where you can really have an auditing
trail for your data quality and better reporting for multiple runs. So, let me show you a few
things you can do. So, writing agents to disk. So, say you want to save results. You want to know
maybe a month from now how things went a month back in terms of, you know, your standard data
quality checks. You can use the X write disk function. So, basically, it's kind of like save
RDS or write RDS, but it's a little bit special in a way. So, let's say you write a point blank
agent to disk. This is useful if you want to continually see the interrogation results
as part of a large data quality process. Here's an example. Agent is saved to disk with the date
as part of the file name. So, I provide some stuff there, some affordances for making it
nice to store. So, I'm going to run this in the console. I don't want to flood the output here.
So, I'm going to run this here. Great. I mean, we got the agent. We might as well look at it.
So, here we go. Great. So, there's our report. Some stuff failed. Well, one thing failed.
One thing. Most things passed. Whatever. It's a report, and it's got a timestamp,
and, you know, the beginning and the ending timestamp for, like, the entire thing.
So, great. So, we have that. But we want to keep this because, you know, we may need to
look at this later on. It's always good to have information at hand. So, X write disk. We take
the agent. We give it a file name, and we give it a path. So, a fixed date. Let's just get into
this first. So, this is provided by point blank, and it just allows you to do nice things like,
you know, add a date to the file name. Great. If that's, you know, your running runs more
commonly, like, more granular, you use date time. There we go. So, I think it uses UTC time. You
can change it to, like, your local time. I think UTC time is probably, like, better.
You can change the position. You can do all sorts of things with this. Like, you know,
beginning, start. Let's do this. Yeah. So, it's pretty flexible. You can do all sorts of
cool things to, you know, adorn your file name. So, when you save things, it's all organized.
When you get back to it, you can just see, like, a directory full of these. It makes some sense.
It can be ordered any way you want. So, that's what these functions do.
So, yeah, we're saving it to small table tests. We're going to write that to disk. I'm not going
to do it again because I don't want to mess up the directory that I have, but it went into here.
Okay. So, I did one of these. This is just one. I did a bunch of other ones, too, because the
point is I'm going to show you what you can do with a number of these things that are saved.
But, okay. We'll get to that. Okay. But one next step is you've got something written to disk.
You may want to read it back. Okay. So, we can do that. We can, you know, just assign it to some
sort of name. You know, we're just getting our historical record of, you know, like,
agent saved to disk. You supply path, file name. You can supply a path in here and just ignore
this. That's a nice little thing to have. Okay. Let's just run this. Great. Okay. So,
it gives you a little feedback, you know, saying something was done. Agent has been read from this.
Good. So, let's see if it's actually there. Great. Yeah. So, it came back, which is good. So,
you can read back past things. This is not too outrageous. If you save an RDS, it's kind of like
this. But this kind of does some stuff for you, like the writing to disk. It does a few things
that I'm not really going to get into. But, you know, extracts are gone. Because, okay. I will
get into it. So, you can choose whether to save extracts from x write disk. The default is no,
but you can say yes. Let's save all the extracts. That's an option. In this case, we get all the
information back. We don't have the extracts, but everything else is back as it was. And we can use
that to, you know, get data from it. We can use, you know, I'm not going to run it, but you can
use get agent x list and get all the data from it programmatically. Okay. So, we were able to
save to disk an agent, read the agent back. Great. Okay. So, now we're going to get to a new type of
object. It's called the multi-agent. So, why would you make something like this? What is this thing?
So, a common task might be to see how data quality is changing over time.
If you have multiple saved agents that check the same table, that's one scenario. You can have,
like, agents checking multiple tables. Different scenario. But say we had this one. We can make a
combined validation report that shows all the validations. Okay. So, as you see in the directory
here, we do actually have five saved agents. They just change by day. So, with that helpful, you
know, function, a fixed date, I was able to make that pretty easily. So, we can create a multi-agent
like this. It's not the most convenient thing the way I have it. I'm sure it could be written better
than this in lots of ways. But I have it like this just for, you know, it's not too scalable,
but we have it here just for demonstrating how it works. So, basically what create agent takes is,
like, a collection of agents. Let's make one big agent. It's kind of like a unified agent.
I call it the multi-agent. And we'll make that object right now. Do the console.
Okay. That's from the inside, but basically we made this multi-agent.
Okay. So, we can get a combined data validation report from it by default. And basically when
you print the object itself, it just gives you defaults, which can be customized. But by default,
all validation reports are stacked together in the long display mode. Okay. Let's show you what
that is. I'm going to show you the multi-agent. The long display mode. Here we go. Okay. So,
I'm going to expand this a little bit. We can change the title of all this stuff too,
but that's part of the customizing part. So, this is one check. This is, you know,
we don't have a good label for this that distinguishes it, but this is basically the
first one. This one's the second one. Different. Third one. Fourth one. Fifth. And that's basically
it. This is why having a good label is nice. You can maybe put the date in that you made the check.
At any rate, this is basically the order that you put them in. Okay. Great. So, that's good. The
order you put them in determines the order you get the reporting in. Good. Okay. So, that's nice.
But you can customize this and, you know, you can change the title. We can change the display mode.
That's kind of what we're going to see now. We operate on the same dataset, small table,
but we kind of want to see like a sort of condensed report. Some of it scales to like lots and lots of
runs. How the, you know, data quality changes over time. So, we can use display mode wide.
So, I'm going to run this in the console. And it takes, you know, the multi-agent.
Get multi-agent report. Kind of matches. Okay. Just going to run that. And we get this. Okay. So,
we have our title there, which is great. Uses markdown in case you need it. Uses the one table,
small table. That's what we labeled it as. And it's kind of cool. This time it arranges it by
time. I mean, it was already given as like, you know, this order. But I think it will rearrange
it in terms of time. Because that's the key thing. You want to see that, you know, as time progresses,
how your runs change. Totally a different type of report, though. You get a very condensed,
summarized view. You're not going to get like a giant table slimmed down to this width. You're
going to get just some aspects of it. You'll get the run, like the step index. You'll get the
pass and fail for this step. And this step may change. Like, I changed it so, like, you know,
calls, vals, rejects was not used in the second report. So, it's just blank. And then later on,
it's used again, but it's deactivated. That's another thing you can do. You can sort of like
pause steps or temporarily deactivate them. So, that's what you see here.
Yeah. And this thing here, we have to learn what this is. This is the hash
ID. So, this basically distinguishes the different steps. I mean, the basis of them is like the same
function. But the values are the same across here. So, like, they're the same step. They're the same
type of validation. So, that's how this works. If you had lots and lots of these, it would scroll
to the right. So, you can have, you know, dozens of these. If you had just a few of these, it
becomes a bit wide. You know, it fills in more of the space. So, there's a few different, like,
widths of this thing that you can see. And so, it rearranges nicely. So, it's pretty flexible
because it's pretty conceivable that you would change some of these and deactivate them as time
goes on. You may add more. So, you just see more at the bottom. But that's how this works.
Okay. This is a really short module. But I think it was important. If you had something where you
wanted to scale up, you'd want to save, you know, save your reports somewhere. And then you want to
read them back and get a different type of report. So, that's basically it. You can save agents to
disk, read them back. It's all about record keeping and data preservation. And multiple
agents can be combined together. You can make specialized reports, either about long table,
stacked, or the evolution of data quality in a single table by display. Okay.
That is basically it for this short module, which is Module 4.
Is there any questions or comments? It could be anything.
Any type of...
Not from Slido yet.
No? Okay. I see nothing in the chat. So, I'm all clear to go. Go ahead. Okay.
So, the last two modules in this workshop, they focus on data documentation. So, we're actually
kind of done the data validation part. If you've got any questions, I'm definitely going to, you
know, answer them later. Because they may just materialize later. And even after the workshop.
So, this is a good reminder that, you know, questions, I take them either in, you know,
GitHub issues, in the discussion section, pretty much everywhere you can reach me. Those are the
best places, though. Okay. Yeah. Let's move on to the next section here. Which is Module 5.
Introduction to data documentation. Okay. Does anybody have a... I mean, I can't just ask this
question, but maybe I could. Is data documentation done? Is it a common practice? I think it's
half done. And it's called different things. Sometimes it's just making a data dictionary.
Sometimes it's just describing your data. It means different things. And unfortunately,
a data dictionary means a different thing in a database context sometimes. But at any rate,
this is all centered around, you know, describing your tables. And, you know, communicating what
the tables are. Like, what variables are in there? What do they mean? Why are they significant? Like,
the table as a whole. Like, where do we get this from? Is it important? What do we use it for?
Who makes this table? So, it's really just writing and technical writing about your table,
in a way. And so, point blank is... has a lot of functionality around that whole thing.
Okay. So, I state that, you know, it's a good thing to document your data sets. It's good for
you. It's good for others. It takes time. I'm hoping point blank makes it simpler, makes it
better, so it's worth the time. So, we use... we have several functions that let us define portions
of information about a table. Okay. More on that in a bit. It's a little bit nebulous. And we have
something called info text. Basically, just writing. It's just text, really. It's informational
text that pertain to individual columns, the table as a whole, and whatever additional information
makes sense. Okay. So, examples. Because this is just, like, nothing until you see an example. So,
small table. Let's refresh our memories on what that is. I'm just going to clear this. Okay.
So, just our example table. I know it's not much to... you know, you have to imagine a big table,
but this is actually really good for instructional settings, because it's something we can manage on
one screen. Okay. So, it's a different set of functions. It kind of, like, is similar to the
validation workflow. You start with a create function. In this case, it's create informant.
Sorry, it's a long function name, but that's what I chose. And it ends with another function that
sort of wraps things up. Basically, it queries the table, if you need it. And we'll show you
when that's used. But basically, you should use the similar construction. And I'll demonstrate
that. Okay. So, let's just do it. Let's create the informant. You pass in a table. Just like
with create agent, you can give it a friendly table name. If you don't include it, it just
includes a table name, but you can make it a little bit different. Maybe you might want to just
lose underscore or, you know, something like that. Maybe you want to change it in some way. But
it's nice to include. Label. You can include a label. That's just part of your report.
And here, the report is super important. It's kind of like the main thing. There's no real data
underlying it. I mean, there is, but you really just want to see the report and publish the report.
That's kind of like the key thing. Okay. So, let's create that informant.
Great. I did it. Okay. Now, let's print it. This can be customized. But just printing it gives
you the defaults. Okay. Let's scroll this up and see the report. So, it gives you a title. You can
totally change. Label. You set that yourself. It gives you information about the table. It's a
little bit different. It gives you the number of rows, number of columns. Kind of like just for
free. And it gives you this one section called columns. And it's mostly empty. There's not much
in there. There's nothing in there, actually, except for the name of the column and the type
of the column. Sometimes it can be two types in the case here. But we get this. And it's really
fast to make, obviously, because it's just text. But, you know, there's nothing here. We have to
add text. So, we can do that with a number of functions. There's actually three main ones.
Info tabular. So, that's adding information or text pertaining to the data table as a whole.
Creates a section. Info columns. Add info for each table column. So, we get that right here.
We already have that filled in. But we don't have any writing on it. And info section. This is just
adding arbitrary sections at the end. And you can provide any additional information. You can make
sections and subsections. You just really sort of fill this out if it's important. And, yeah. So,
that's what these three functions do. Okay. So, let's try adding some information with each of
these functions and then look at it. So, we can iterate pretty quickly on this. So, create
informant. We got that. Now, info tabular. I'm going to do a cool thing here. I'm just going to
take this and paste this right in the console. And we'll see step by step what each thing does.
Okay. So, in this case, info tabular. We're creating a section. This is our own name.
Description. This table is included in the point blank package. Okay. So, let's see what that does.
Great. Look at that. So, it just says it makes a section called table. And then your
subsection is called description. And then your text is included. And it's all marked downified
right there. Great. Good first start. Okay. Now, these columns. Let's actually describe some of
these. Not all of them, but we'll describe at least one. So, date time. We make a section
called info. This column is full of timestamps. Okay. Better than what we have here. So, let's
actually take this, run that. There we go. Info. This column is full of timestamps. We can change
this to whatever. We can make this emoji. We can make covered in backticks and put a space,
you know, make it longer. So, that's the name of the subsection we're making inside here. Okay.
So, info section. So, here we're making a subsection.
information.
This is the section name that we are making.
So, info section.
So here we are making a subsection, it's called section...
Actually, no.
The way info section works is you define the subsection name, further information, and
then you provide its own little sections inside.
Ok, sounds a little crazy but let's just run it.
This appears at the bottom so we have to scroll down.
Let's see here, further information is the section name, examples and documentation,
and then the text for that.
So again, because this is a markdown, we can do things like add links, and they actually
work, and these are styled nicely for you.
That's what this does for you.
And it generally looks pretty good.
And as you can imagine, we can keep going, describe all the columns, you know, like add
a lot of further information.
We can really pad this out, and we will.
We'll show more complete examples.
But we just want to show the basics here.
So, key things, create and format, info functions like info columns, info tabular, info section.
A must is having info columns, otherwise you just have empty descriptions of the columns.
So that's kind of good.
So we got that.
Now let's go into each of these little things here.
The table section and info tabular.
So we did that before.
Info tabular, description, it just sits inside here.
This table is included in the point blank package.
Okay.
We did that.
That was used to make the description subsection.
All section titles are automatically capitalized.
We can define as many subsections to the table section as we need.
Oops.
Either in the same info tabular call or across multiple calls.
Okay.
That's a lot.
So let's actually run this.
Let me just run this whole thing so we make sure we have that object.
Great.
And so now what we're doing here is we're using info tabular again and making a section called updates.
This table is not regularly updated.
So that fits within the table section right here.
It's just going to go underneath description.
All right.
Good.
So this is nice.
So now we have a bit more information.
We have subsections.
Life is good.
Okay.
So the table section is a great place to put all the information about the table that used to be front and center.
So here's some examples just to get your imagination going.
What about high-level summary of the table stating its purpose and importance?
What each row of the table represents.
That's a good one.
The main users of the table within an organization.
A description of how the table is generated.
And information on the frequency of updates.
That's a good thing to put front and center.
If you don't really need it up here, you can put it at the bottom in further information or whatever you want to call this.
This other sections.
Okay.
So that's cool.
Now we're going to move to columns again.
I mean, we showed you how to, you know, fill in information for the first time.
But there's a bit more to this function than that.
There's a little bit of detail.
Let me show you with an example.
Okay.
So individual columns will serve as subsections, as we see here.
Each one is a subsection.
And the interesting thing, as I noted here in the text, is that the information is additive.
We can make multiple calls of info columns and disperse common pieces of info text to multiple columns.
So say you had something that was common to each of the columns you want to include at the end.
You can just state multiple columns get this bit of text glommed onto the end of the existing text.
We'll show that.
It does some use cases for that.
Okay.
So let's do that right here.
Informant PP, that's Palmer Penguins.
We're going to create the informant.
We'll go one step at a time and see how this works.
That's the best way to sort of, like, understand.
Okay.
So here we go.
We got these columns right here, quite a few.
We got the rows and the columns, the counts right here.
Great.
That's our start.
Info columns.
We're targeting species, which is right here.
Now the info we're going to include is a factor denoting penguin species.
And we're using a little bit of markdown to show this in italics.
Okay.
So I'm going to run that.
Great.
Looks great.
So we're going to move to island.
Same sort of thing.
Adding a little bit of info.
It's right here.
Wonderful.
Bill length, millimeters, bill depth, flipper length.
Okay.
So we're seeing many of the same things.
Great.
Got those.
Wonderful.
Okay.
What about this?
We got something that's totally different here.
Ends with MM.
Okay.
So that would be this one, this one, and this one.
And we're putting info in parentheses in units of millimeters.
Okay.
So this is the thing I was talking about.
You can add bits of text to multiple columns in the order that you define these
statements.
So this is kind of nice, because, like, we're sort of expecting something
here in terms of, like, you know, details about units.
So let's just try that.
Okay.
I'm going to scroll down a bit.
But, yeah, this all came in.
You did three at a time, which is great.
So bits of text, you might do that same thing with labels, for instance.
You might make, like, a little label.
There's affordances for that in this part of the package as well, too.
Sort of, like, add a bunch of things to different subsections.
Okay.
So we're doing this again.
Body mass G.
We didn't do that yet.
That's empty.
I copied that down.
Now if I scroll down, body mass G, it has its own text.
Okay.
We're going to do the same thing for the last two right here.
Just, like, the very end.
Great.
Now we have all the different columns, like, with some text.
That's basically a data dictionary.
Like, that's, like, the very basics.
And, again, with all these things, you could, like, publish.
You can export the report.
You can put this in Kinect.
This is just the same as every little bit of reporting.
You can, you know, export the HTML file, embed it somewhere.
Lots of options.
So I'm going to just save that to that object.
We've already seen it, so I don't need to run that again.
But this just explains that ends with is what we used here.
Could be used when targeting columns.
And we can use all these different tie select helper functions,
like ends with, contains, matches, everything.
Starts with, as we do in the other part of the package,
to do data validation as well.
You can use these as well.
I'm going to advise with data validation because you're kind of, like,
guessing at this point, you know, being explicit.
But it's pretty good here.
It's pretty good because you're just, the stakes are a bit lower.
Okay.
So that is the beginnings.
I see you have some questions in the chat, maybe.
Great.
There are three, actually.
I think, I mean, I start with probably the most recent one.
Is there any way to pull values from the data via R for the info description?
Oh, yes.
For example, unique values in the column.
Yes, that's a must-have.
And I do have affordances and things just for that.
You're going to love it because you don't have to, like,
get manual with it.
You don't, you're basically in the API.
And they're called snippets.
And basically you're querying the data and you're generating the text,
like, on the fly.
The only thing you have to do is make sure that the data is reachable.
So at the very end, you do, like, this incorporate function,
which basically, like, runs all the snippets, gets the text,
puts it in the right spot.
And then, like, any time the data changes, the text updates,
because it's basically generating text from the data, which is what you want.
So we're trying to avoid things like being stale, you know,
and doing lots of manual work, like, you know, like, you know, like.
But we'll see that.
So right here, we did a thing, which is very manual.
We got different years.
We can totally do that with our own, like, thing with info snippet.
But more on that soon.
So that's basically that.
That's that.
So was there another question?
All right.
Second one is industry standards should allow us to create standard agents.
Are you aware of industry collaboration to view standard agents,
like CDC or Adam?
No, not yet.
That seems like an obvious one.
I think it's because we don't have that yet, because we reached out,
because a lot of people don't know about this package.
So it's a visibility thing.
I think this package can definitely make standard rules for that,
because I looked at some of the rules for CDISC and things like that.
And they seem like things that could be covered pretty easily by point
blank.
So I don't know if anybody's interested in that sort of collaboration.
I'm all ears.
I actually have a similar feeling.
Maybe the R for submission team will be interested in looking into this
further.
Yeah.
Because I really feel like all the things I looked at in terms of the
rules can be covered.
And if they can't be, I can definitely make it so.
Yeah.
One more question.
I'm not sure.
Maybe go to the previous module.
When you show the multi-agent wide reporting,
can you explain a little bit more about the hashes?
Yeah.
Certainly.
So you have like call vows between.
And you have, okay.
So you have the agent, that's fine.
Columns.
Do bars B or something like that, or just B.
And, you know, we have two values right here.
Three and five.
So this takes all the values.
And then it creates a unique hash based on those different values.
So that, that way you distinguish between another step,
which might be something like this.
And maybe focus on column C.
We can't distinguish between different steps just by the, you know,
the basis function, which is called out between.
We have to make sure that everything that is different.
Or can be different is, you know, grouped in the same sort of like hash.
So the hashing is good.
It basically takes all information.
It basically makes groups for you.
Like, or let's see.
Let's point blank. No.
And let's the user know that.
Yeah, this is the same thing.
You know,
your arguments might be out of order and you may have the same data.
So it basically just says like, that's the same exact same rule.
That's being used. So.
You know, say for instance, later on, you change your test.
So like, you know, like this, this changed.
That'll be a different hash.
It'll be on a different row.
And so like any, you know, steps beforehand.
That have the same rule will be.
In subsequent steps.
That's kind of how it works.
It's basically, so, you know, you keep track of things.
In a way.
It could be displayed a little bit better, but there's at least it.
Keeps things consistent.
Great. Thank you. That's all the questions.
Yeah. Thank you.
Okay.
Perfect. So.
Creating extra sections with info section. So.
This is kind of nice. This is the kind of at the end.
You just want to.
Create arbitrary sections that describe things.
Sometimes you need that. Sometimes you don't.
You might be.
Okay.
So.
I see.
Okay, so.
This is kind of nice. This is the kind of at the end, you just want to create arbitrary sections that describe things. Sometimes you need that sometimes you don't, you might be certified just putting at the top and table but there's basically
two places. Okay.
So I see here, information doesn't fit into table and column sections can be placed in extra sections with info section.
These sections by design go at the bottom.
In the order of creation of these calls.
So let's try that with the Palmer penguins data, so I have the saved or assigned to that we're going to modify that a bit, and then reassign it to the same thing.
So info section will call it source.
I have a really large chunk of text I basically just copied it from the package website.
These are basically references.
And it has things like links.
Well mostly just links which are different, but I have it here as a vector, and it is simply just fine. So let's actually run this and see what is happening here.
Oh, hang on, there's more than that too. I've also got a note, which is another section here.
Well, we'll just see what happens.
I'm going to run this.
Okay, then paste this over here.
It's a little bit bigger.
Okay, we got all the stuff you had before, because we're just like adding on to it.
But now we have in source references, and now we have these nice links, we can go to really great stuff, and we have a note, the bottom.
So basically just copied and pasted.
It's pretty good. It handles text pretty well, and it does all the resolving.
It does little soft breaks here for you, like paragraphs.
So paragraphs are with C.
So all in all, it's pretty nice. It's good to have.
And that's basically additively adding sections and bits of text.
Okay.
Oh wow, I got some ideas here.
It's like a little idea board, if you will.
What other types of information go well in these separate sections?
Here's some ideas.
Any info related to the source of the data table?
Definitions, explanations of the terms used above?
Persons responsible for the table?
Maybe contact info?
Further details on how the table is produced?
Any important issues with the table and notes on upcoming changes?
Because this is communication, right?
Important, sorry, links to other information artifacts that pertain to the table?
Could be report generation metadata, which may include things like update history,
persons responsible, instructions on how to contribute, things like that.
So I just thought I'd throw some ideas out there in terms of what you can include.
I mean, you have all this infrastructure for like, you know, having sessions,
but sometimes, you know, the ideas are important as well.
Okay.
As before, we have a way to customize the information report.
We can do that with the get informant report.
A lot of these get functions will have the name of the report,
and then you have a bunch of options.
So let's try this one here.
We can change the size of the report.
Say this is like too wide.
And then like the title.
This is not a great title, like for most people.
It's pretty bad, actually.
But you can change that.
In this case, we have a keyword.
It's surrounded by colons, table name.
You can just put it in text, of course.
But this just puts the table name at the top.
Pretty cool.
So I think I ran that.
So I'm going to copy that here.
And then show you the new report.
Okay.
Yeah, it's sort of been down a little bit in terms of size.
Not by much.
You can really change this to whatever pixel size you want.
But here it is.
And the name is now penguins.
It's just the name of the table.
And yeah.
It's the same table.
We just customized it a bit.
And there's more customization options as well.
I don't think there's too many.
You can change the language.
You can change the locale.
That's primitive.
There's less than there is in GetAgentReport.
But they're there nonetheless.
Okay.
So if this report looks really good, publish it.
That's the whole point.
In a variety of ways.
Connect, Cordopub.
If you haven't heard of Cordopub, it's quite amazing.
It's free.
Your username.
You can use the Cordo CLI for that.
You can export to standalone HTML.
Export report.
Many options.
So I have it right here.
Where are you?
Where's the penguins?
Informant penguins.
There we go.
This is hiding in plain sight.
So I can see that in my browser.
Here we go.
So basically here it is right there.
Looks really good.
So yeah, it can make that HTML document for you.
And you can embed that in lots of different places.
Great.
So just to summarize, this whole first part of data documentation.
It's not the end.
There's more.
More to come in the next module.
But I thought I'd break it up into two because there's lots there.
So you begin the process of documenting a dataset with create informant.
Use info tabular.
Just grab a table in general terms.
That will be the first section for the column descriptions.
With info columns, you can document each column in a dataset.
When you create the informant, you get sort of like stubs of all the
different columns.
You then fill in the information.
Arbitrary sections of additional information.
You can add those with info section.
You can control the look and feel of information report with get
informant report.
You can export it with export report.
You can also do X save.
Save.
I forgot the name of it now.
As before, when you saved the different.
So sorry.
It's X write disk.
You can do that with the informant as well.
That accepts a variety of different object types from point blank.
So you can save them as well in different states.
That is it for that module.
We'll look in the chat for questions.
Okay.
Multiple tables within a database.
If Melody can just like explain that question maybe once more.
Does this do multiple tables in a database?
Trying to get the question.
Maybe if you write in like what you mean, I'll get to that in a second.
But I'll do Gavin's questions.
Okay.
Is it scalable to document multiple tables in a database?
No worries.
Yeah, but not in one report though.
I don't quite have the whole framework where you have like a data
catalog yet.
Where you can just like, you know,
tab through a bunch of different tables.
That is sort of like in the pipeline.
It's sort of like a vision of mine to do that.
But you can definitely do it in multiple scripts for the same sort of
thing.
And it does work with database tables as well.
Like all this stuff does.
It works with a wide variety.
So good to know.
If you have like MySQL, you've got Postgres.
Works with BigQuery.
You know, there's a bunch more.
DuckDB as well.
This also works with arrow datasets as well,
but only the informant, like the data documentation part,
not the validation part yet.
Okay.
That's also explained in case you want to reference in the actual,
like pretty much each help file has that,
like what types of tables can be passed in right here.
So obviously Spark DataFrames, all these different types.
And works the same with informant, except for arrow.
Or it's the opposite, it's the same.
Okay.
Can I create interactive informant reports in a Shiny app?
For example, letting the user choose the language.
Ooh, no, not quite yet.
Unless you're like a Shiny whiz and you want to generate, you know,
you have the code, you want to generate the reports.
You can't do that.
So you have to create a Shiny report.
And then you can create a Shiny report.
Okay.
Unless you're like a Shiny whiz and you want to generate, you know,
you have the controls.
I think you can, you just have to, this is imaginist.
I think you just have to use this and then set the language.
Like link.
Of course,
all your text has to be in a language to sort of match the labels that
we generate.
But I think it's possible with a little bit of work.
I mean, all the, all the stuff is there to, to make it possible.
It'll just take some work to create that, you know,
Okay.
Would be good to have a way to have one cover page.
Yes, definitely.
Definitely would.
That's the whole idea of like a data catalog,
which I don't quite have yet.
Sort of like a way to sort of like how, what interface for, for,
you know, having multiple reports.
Like per day or frame.
It seems like an obvious thing.
It's a bit of work.
No problem.
Of course.
But the context you do that in,
I think it's going to be like shiny, but maybe not.
You just want to have a simple HTML report.
Which is also possible that way too.
So I think we need kind of need both.
How would you combine reports and mobile tables and export HTML?
You kind of wouldn't,
I guess the framework you would use is shiny for that and then use.
Basically that way to get raw HTML.
Into that.
So if you have like the exported HTML files,
you can definitely take those in as inputs.
Quarter book with a section for each report.
That seems like a good one too.
It seems like a lot of different like mediums for like disseminating all
the different like reports.
And you know, having, having them sectioned.
Quarter book seems like an obvious one as well.
Maybe not so much the book, but maybe I'm not sure.
But it could definitely be like something in quarter.
And it's good that so far, at least it's not,
it doesn't seem that difficult because this does have.
It's just, this does render like these reports do render in those.
In quarterly or markdown.
Did I miss anything?
No, it seems like I covered all that.
Slido is quiet.
Everybody is doing zoom.
Yeah.
We're good.
Okay, great. Awesome.
Okay.
So that's like part one of data documentation.
And the timing here is really great.
I was worried that we wouldn't be able to cover it all or I'd finish
an hour early, but that's not the case.
So, so yay.
Okay. So let's continue on to the next section.
Actually let's have a little bit of a break.
It's always good to have a break.
Let's do a short break, a three minute break return.
You know, in, you know, at the half hour interval.
I think that's a good idea.
So see you in three.
Okay, well thanks for understanding that short break.
It's always good to have a little bit of a break just to relax for a
second or two.
Okay, so let's get back into data documentation.
We're going to get deeper into documenting data.
What you can make just with the information in module five is perfectly
serviceable, really great stuff.
What I want to show you in module six would be like, you know,
like really amplifying and like, you know,
like making an incredible data dictionary.
I mean, the results will be amazing.
Sorry for overstating it, but it's really good stuff here.
So I'm really happy to get to this and have a bit of time to show it
to you.
So, yeah.
We now know how to make a useful data dictionary.
It can be published and widely shared.
That's totally the name of the game.
We used a point blank informant with a set of information functions to
generate info text to bring a lot of like terminology at you,
but hopefully it's not too much.
So we put that text into the appropriate report sections.
That's what we did.
But now I'm going to take this a number of steps further and look into
some more functionality that makes this info text a bit more dynamic and
also include a finalizing step in this workflow that accounts for
evolving data.
Because sometimes data changes.
It could be quite often.
It can be once in a while, but when you have evolving data,
it's really hard to keep up with it because every time it changes,
you know, your reports may be more and more inaccurate.
So, okay.
So that's my next big function I'm going to show you.
It's like the last info function that I'm going to show you,
but it's really cool.
It allows you to create snippets of useful text.
Okay.
So a great source of the information about the table can be the table
itself.
Suppose you want to show some categorical values for a particular column,
a range of values for an important numeric column,
KPI values that can be calculated using data in the table.
You can do that with info snippet.
You give the snippet a name, you give it a function call,
and then say where to insert it.
You have to provide a directive there.
So two things.
You provide the thing that gets you the information,
and you instruct point blank where to put that bit of information.
So let's do this for the small table dataset available in package.
Again, if you're not sick of this table already, here it is again.
It's a really small table,
but it's good because we know what's in it.
It's all here.
So if you wanted to get the mean value of the data in column D,
which is right here, rounded to one decimal place,
we can do it with this expression right here.
So we know how to do this.
Great.
That's the mean value.
Be nice to put into the table.
I mean, into the data sharing, you know, in case that's important.
May not be the best example, but it's, you know,
you can see where it's coming from where it's going.
So inside of the info snippet call,
which is used after creating the informant object,
an expression would look like this.
So we're taking this whole thing, replacing small table with a dot,
and then just piping it through.
I mean, you can use a function as well, but this is one way of doing it.
So table, then we're getting column D,
calculating the mean, rounding it to one decimal place.
We're going to call the snippet mean D.
We're just giving it a name.
It's like an ID.
Great.
So we have that.
So let's run this whole thing.
Okay.
Great.
So if you run informant,
we get this.
Basically, you know, nothing to do with that,
because we didn't actually put anywhere.
So we just basically have like the table, the column stubs,
and, you know, that's it.
Great.
I mean, we do have this now stored in the object, but we're not seeing it.
So we've got to change that.
So this data set associated informant,
it's represented with the leading dot.
That's been fully explained.
And this is kind of like a functional sequence, just saying table.
We're carrying it through and getting the mean.
Okay.
And important,
we don't want to use a tilde because we don't actually want to run this
right away, like evaluate it.
You want to sort of store it.
And we always do that with the tilde, at least in point blank.
That's what it does.
Okay.
So next we need to have a place to put it.
So the snippet has been given the name mean underscore D.
So we know what it will produce this value.
We've seen it right there.
What can we do with that?
So we got to put it in some sort of text.
We can use the snippet name as the key.
So it works just like glue does.
If you ever use the package glue,
it uses like these curly braces and then some stuff in a curly brace to,
you know, put stuff in.
So same sort of principle applies here.
We got, you know, the mean value is in curly braces, mean D.
We know that this has the snippet information.
When you're processing this text, it just scans for like these names.
And it can put the actual evaluated result into the text.
So let's actually run this.
Okay.
All right. Excellent.
So, oh, yeah, we don't see it.
There's a reason for that.
And I'll get to it.
We still have mean D in curly braces.
Okay.
I'll say that we want.
So we got to do more than just that.
There's one last step.
We got to finalize everything with incorporate.
So what this does is it instructs point blank to create the data.
This is similar using interrogate.
We're doing the data validation.
So it's like the final step.
It's kind of like you surround all your directives with beginning and the
last step.
Yeah.
And the reason why we have to do that is because we don't actually touch
the data until we ask, you know, we ask the data to be touched.
Because it may exist in a database somewhere.
We don't want to always query it.
Sometimes it could be slow.
There's just good reasons.
So we have to include this.
So let's run it again.
This time we're doing the whole thing.
So you can see all one sort of like one pill swoop.
And then cool.
Okay.
This is interesting.
When you run incorporate, you get some information back in the console.
Information gathered.
Snip is processed.
Information built.
Okay.
It's very promising.
Let's take a look at this built information.
Excellent.
Look at this.
The mean value is this, which is proper.
Wonderful.
If your data changes, this will change.
Great.
Because you just include the same programmatic that gets a value out.
You put an info snippet.
You gave it a name.
You use that name to put that value somewhere in some text.
It could be anywhere.
Okay.
Good.
So you can provide any function you want.
But we actually include a bunch of like useful functions in the package.
Makes it easier for common things.
They all begin with the snip prefix.
And they are.
Here we go.
Snip list.
Get a list of column categories.
It's kind of cool.
Snip lowest.
Get the lowest value from a column.
Snip highest.
Get the highest value from a column.
Can make a range.
Snip stats.
Get an inline statistical summary.
Let's use some of these.
So, yeah, they're used as a function.
Value and info snippet.
They have arguments.
You know, and some of them have lots of arguments.
Like snip list has quite a few things.
So you can really craft that list in a way that you really want it.
Okay.
So I'll show you some of that.
So snip list.
That comes first.
So I'm describing some aspect of the target table.
You may want to extract some values from the column.
And include them in a piece of input text.
It's pretty efficient with snip list.
So right here, we're using Palmer penguins again.
And we're making two snippets.
This could be in any order.
The snippets could come last.
They can come first.
That doesn't seem to matter.
Okay.
So we're going to call the species snippet.
We're snipping a list from the column species.
So let's actually take a look at this.
And we can sort of like envision what this will do.
So just looking at the top.
Species.
Okay.
So basically, it's got a factor.
But basically, it's going to take the text.
And just condense it down into three unique values.
And make that list.
And it will present it in ways based on the options in here.
There's a bunch of options.
There's like limit, sorting, reverse, the separator, and or Oxford.
As code.
Quote string.
So many things.
Lang as well.
There's lots of options to make sure that the list will give you options for making the list the way you want it to be made.
Okay.
We're doing it for island as well.
There's how many islands?
I totally forgot.
Two, I think.
I forgot.
We're going to find out.
So we're going to make a list based on the island column.
Great.
Okay.
And we'll see here.
We've got to put these things somewhere.
So species snippet.
You see just by like double-clicking it.
It's going into here.
Okay.
Species.
In parentheses.
Species snippet.
Great.
Same thing with island snippet.
Right there.
A factor denoting island.
Island in Palmer Archipelago, Antarctica.
Island snippet.
Okay.
So let's run this.
The whole thing.
Great.
It did the thing here where it notifies you that things were done.
Going to run this.
Great.
Look at this.
It made these lists.
You didn't have to like, you know, like fetch them.
You know, like do weird things.
I mean, you could, but this is kind of nice.
Especially really more complicated things.
And if you have a giant list, it'll like limit items for you.
It'll do things like that.
And so it does scale nicely.
It doesn't give you like a massive list.
There's a cutoff.
Great.
Okay.
So this works for numeric values too.
Let's use snip list.
Provide a text snippet based on the values in the year.
Okay.
So we're going to carry on with this.
Just add to the informant underscore PP.
And incorporate again.
Okay.
Now, if you run it once more.
It's basically a revision of the previous one.
Let's go to.
Oh, here we go.
Yeah.
So the year.
2007 2008 and 2009.
Great.
And you can tweak the way this list appears.
You can change all sorts of things about it.
Great.
Okay.
So we have two more here.
I'll actually not two more, but this is another two.
They go well together.
Snip lowest, snip highest.
I'm pretty sure you can imagine where this is going.
We're doing pretty much the same sort of thing.
I'm just going to quickly run through this.
Info columns.
I'm just noting here that we're actually including the snippets here.
But we're not defining them until later.
That's totally fine.
You can put them wherever you want.
It doesn't matter what the order is.
At least when it's regarding snippets.
And like the, you know, the other things like the columns.
These can go anywhere.
Okay.
So basically I'm snipping lowest.
Choosing a column.
Snipping highest.
Max depth is what I'm calling it.
I'm just giving my own name.
Looks great.
In this case, I'm just doing the largest flipper length.
That's what I called it.
Snip highest flipper length.
Okay.
So let's run this.
This again is adding to what was there before.
Great.
And what I'll do is I'll copy that into the console as I've been doing.
And we'll see the updated results.
So here we go.
Pretty nice.
Number denoting bill depth in the range of 13 by 1 to 21.5 millimeters.
Great.
Largest observation is that.
Because we snipped the largest value.
Okay.
Again, data changes.
This changes.
Maybe.
Okay.
So you can see from the report, we can creatively use the lowest and highest values obtained by those functions.
Those snipped functions.
To specify a range or to show some maximum value.
Whatever.
The ordering, again, not important.
At least for info snippet.
As that's arranged, it doesn't matter.
I mean, it's kind of good if you put it as a block together.
Just for your own sort of like code maintenance.
But it doesn't matter in the context of it working.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think there's one question from Zoom.
Can you check if columns change from one agent to another regarding the multi-agent objects?
Hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, you can have a step, which is basically call schema.
Or call schema match, I believe it is.
And that checks like all the columns in the arrangement.
And you have a step there.
And if, you know, the multi-agent is essentially is multiple agents.
If that changes in one step, you'll see a failure pop up over time.
In that wide report.
Or even in a stack report.
You should see like things will fail at one particular time.
to Understand, Validate, and Document your Data, pointblank
brackets, you'll get the transformation automatically. If
you have like things like ISO dates, it recognizes that. And
you know, if you put in parentheses, what does it do? It
does something special. Let's see what that is. So I have one
right here. Let's take a look at informant. And it's basically
adding to what we have originally. So it's going to be
like an addition to what we have. We're using incorporate at
the end, that just means it'll just update. Okay, and now
informant, just end up twice, sorry. Great. So see right here,
we did this, we just had to enclose it with like
parentheses. And if it's a date, it'll do this. Kind of take it
or leave it. If you like that sort of thing, it's kind of
nice, because sometimes you want dates to stick out a bit more.
Okay, labels, sometimes you want labels. So we can take portions
of text and present them as labels. So we do that with, you
know, double parentheses or triple parens. So this is pretty
good, if you want to signify priority category or some other
information, you know, find useful. So you're just making
your own little labels. So yeah, we're going to add on to the
informant we currently have. Here, we're doing something where
we used high select anything that ends with mm, or ends with
g. These are some sort of like measurements, we're going to
call them measured, additional notes, factor numeric integer,
essentially, we're adding some like, some labels at the end in
some section. Let's actually run this and see what it does. Okay,
we go, we're gonna have to scroll a little bit. But we'll
eventually see, oh, here we go. So this was something that was
measured. And we just put a little label there measured. All
we had to do was like include the word measured in double
friends. Again, the text is additive, so it will be added to
the end of the current text. So you can just do stepwise, it's
kind of neat. At the very bottom, we have additional notes,
data types, and we have these really nice rounded labels like
that. So factor numeric integer. Not that important in terms of
like, what this is, but it's an idea. It gives you kind of what
you need. Okay, style text. So if you want to use CSS styles,
if you know about that stuff, and you want to use it, you can.
So you have to use this construction right here, info
text in double square brackets, and then angle brackets doubled
again with the style rules. So here's an example. The text,
this is a factor. And the factor is enclosed in the double square
brackets. And then immediately following that we have some CSS
rules. Now important, it's separated by a semicolon each
time. And then we use, you know, proper CSS rules, because we're
generating this in HTML, it's not a problem, it just gets
applied to those bits of text. Okay, some ideas for text color
just changes the text color, background color, the text
background color, basically, text decoration and text
transform, we can choose these options. Letter spacing can be
changed, sorry, word spacing, font style, font weight, font
variant, border. So lots of different things can change.
These are just suggestions for obvious ones. There could be
other ones too. But let's try a few examples here. So in
additional notes, we have like, you know, these words, penguins,
Antarctica, measurements, they're actually like labels,
because we have a double parens, and we also have the double
square brackets. So we're doing two things here. And here with
factor, we're showing that example as above, except for
changing the, we're adding an underline there. Okay, so let's
run this. Great, it's not updated. Okay, so I'll just type
this in. Okay, great. I'll have to go to the bottom, I believe.
Well, actually, right here, we have Yeah, factor underlined.
That's what we did right here. Great. And at the very bottom,
keywords, penguins, Antarctica measurements, we now have these
like labels, and they actually have a border color and a
background color. You know, this is really above beyond what you
may need, but at least as possible, just in case you do
need it. Because you never know, it's always good to have the
option. Oh, well, this really kind of ends it. Okay. So yeah,
with the above info columns and infosection function calls, you
can style a single word with an underline, and even style
labels. Great. So to sum up for this section, you can create a
table with the one being documented with expression
inside of info snippet. We can use various snip underscore
functions, included in point blank, they handle common use
cases. We didn't show them all we didn't show like the stats
one, but help is there for that. Label like text, we can do that
with like double or tripled prints. And we can style text
with this construction with the square and angle braces. Yeah,
links are automatically styled dates, they can be all styled
if enclosed in parentheses. So lots of options. I think that
makes it look really good. There's probably too much to do
if you do all that. But who knows, you may need it. So
again, this this whole thing is something that you can publish.
That's the whole point. And currently, we don't have a way
to make this automatic, you have to sort of do it yourself make
your own sort of pipeline. I can envision like a system where you
have a bunch of tables, and you have a number of these, you just
navigate to them. Okay, that prevents it. I'm gonna go to the
chat and address any questions.
Rich, I'm gonna pick up one embedded a little earlier. I
think his comments about the steps are additive. Can you
undo the steps?
And do the steps?
No, you can replace the whole bit, though. Basically, to undo
you just don't write it in the first place, I suppose. Well,
actually, no, you can sort of in a way you can overwrite with
nothing, I suppose. So if you do info text,
sort of info columns, I should say.
And there's an argument in here, it's going to tap to it. It's
called add. And it's true by default. So I can see replacing
something that you just get a table, and you have this thing
that you don't want it, you can just do this.
And the section name as well, because there probably should be
a section attached. So like, section equals this, that should
like get back to like square one, I suppose. But there's no
real function for for removing it.
Removing a session, although it's a good idea for for me
adding that.
Yeah, I think one more question before you can complete catch
on the zoom. Can you please show an example deactivating a step
in an agent validation test report?
Yes, sounds good. I can definitely do that.
This is great, because there is time to do this. So I'll get one
of the simple ones right here.
So I'm just gonna read like this.
So it's actually kind of like this.
Active, false.
There we go. So this is kind of good. If you want to just like
run it, but not make it active. Say if something's changed, you
just want to like, you know, skip past that. Well, data
changes for some reason, you still want to run the report.
You can do that.
Agent one.
Okay, and there are other functions for doing this as
well, that just you can do it spot wise, like, I think it's
like deactivate steps. And you give it an agent, agent one.
And you give it the eye. So let's do one.
Now, if you
look at it, well, let's do this.
Interrogate.
See right there, but I missed it. But it says right here, now
we run it. Step one is not says active skipping. And we did
these before as well. Step steps 12 and 13 are not says active
because we manually did that in we set the step. But you can do
it after the fact as well. You can just use deactivate steps.
And you can also use activate steps to go the reverse way to
reactivate them in a way. So yeah, that's totally possible in
lots of ways. And it shows in a report as sort of like a grayed
out row.
Okay, so this is for that. I'll go to the I'll go to the slide.
The zoom questions.
I touch ups. Very cool. Thank you so much.
Let's see.
Please show us example. Okay, did that. So
I think that's it. The rest are just like good words. Okay.
Well, thank you for enjoying this. Like, I put a lot of work
into this package. I will pledge to keep working on it. I mean,
there's like, a lot of utility that can come from like, you
know, having correct data or seeing what kind of level of
correctness you have. So, you know, pretty important stuff.
Okay.
Yeah, and
oh, excellent. Sweet. Sweet.
Great. And again, I repeat this like I'm like, like a broken
record. Any comments on the package, any features you want
make an issue, start a discussion on the repo.
I'm like all yours when it comes to that stuff.
So I work closely with rich on the GT package. And I can tell
you that what he's saying is very, very true. So he's, he's
quite engaged on the packages. So
alright, so one thing I'll mention is I just put in the
chat box for those of you that would like to get the digital
credential for attending today and completing the session.
When you exit zoom, please keep an eye out for the survey last
for your information so that we can issue you the badge. For
some people that just haven't seen it. So if that happens to
you just shoot an email to info at our informa.com and we can
help issue it to you directly. But thanks again, rich. It's
been amazing seeing how much questions and engagement has
been coming in. We'll keep the Slido up. And so rich if there's
questions there you didn't answer questions you'd like to
answer. You know, feel free to continue to check that out and
see see what happens. But I'll actually get on the slide. Yeah,
yeah, it's great. Thanks for saying hello. And yeah, great
questions coming in. I love them.
Yeah, awesome. And so we also just posted some of the other
information for you on the zoom chat. So yeah, keep an eye out
for the recording in the YouTube channel that will probably be
for some time, it takes a little bit of time to get things edited
and approved. But we do hope to post this one when it's available
on our YouTube channel. All right, well, rich, any last
comments or people on the bridge would like to ask anything, feel
free to go off mute.
Yeah, I'll be here if there's any questions, but maybe I have
nothing really much else to say, use the package, please.